Speaker 1  0:23  
Uh, my name is Rob Cassell, and I'm the instructor for our session. Okay, today's session is algorithmic trading, and I just want to mention that, Okay, terrific. I see a lot of hellos. Thank you. Good, good. I want to make sure people are on I didn't see too many people, but now I do. So hello, good morning, good evening, and I'm looking forward to the session. So today's session is algorithm. Trading. And what I'm going to do is give give you an Well, I should say that this algorithmic trading is broken into two sessions. Today's session is going to be just an overview of the electronic and algorithmic trading space. We're going to talk about the trading environment. What is it? What are algorithms? And we're going to talk a little bit about the order book. How do exchanges make money, and how do brokers make money? Okay, in the next session, we're going to get into all the math behind algorithms. I'm going to show you how you can measure broker performance. I'm going to show you how you can measure the performance of algorithms. Are the brokers and are the algorithms providing you with the quality of service that they should be? Now if you ask a broker, of course, they're going to say, yes, they are, but the truth is, you should always evaluate what they're doing. So I'm going to show you all the tricks of the trade. I'm going to show you everything that brokers don't want you to know. On top of that, in the second session, we're also going to get into the analytics used within algorithmic trading. So and we're going to do all, all of our analyzes using Python. Okay, so let's look at today's session. So we're talking about the financial landscape trading algorithms, the market order book, order types and smart order routing. Next session, as I mentioned, we're going to do post trade analysis. We're going to learn how to measure costs, calculate costs and evaluate brokers and performance, and we're going to get into the what we call the pre trade analytics. Then learn how to estimate costs, evaluate trading strategies. We even going to learn how to optimize trading strategies. What's the best way for you to trade given your investment objective? Okay, I'm

Speaker 1  3:23  
so let's start what is electronic trading? So electronic trading is the process of entering orders and transacting over computer network. So here I'm just using computers to execute my orders. Historically, orders were sent to brokers by phone, by fax, and brokers were tasked with manually executing orders on behalf of the clients, and brokers would use specialists and market makers, But now, markets are completely electronic. Trading algorithms and making execution decisions without human intervention. Okay, and this leads us to today with algorithmic trading. So what is algorithm trading? Exactly? Well, algorithmic trading is a computerized execution of financial instruments following a set of pre specified trading rules and instructions. And I say that's one of the most important parts of algorithmic trading, following pre specified trading rules and instructions. Now these instructions specify how fast or how slow to transact the order. You should use a market order? Should I use a limit order? As we mentioned, traditionally, investors would send their order to a broker and. Broker would transact the order in the market using best efforts based on their expertise. But now, with the changing landscape, human traders are no longer best equipped to handle the large quantity of financial data, but instead, traders rely on sophisticated algorithms to execute orders, and this is based on changing market quotes and trends.

Speaker 1  5:32  
What I should have mentioned as well is I'm going to break the session up today into two parts. First part, we're going to go about an hour and a half, then we'll take a 10 minute break, and then we'll come back and finish up. Just to show everyone knows what we're going to be doing today, we will have a break about halfway through the session. Okay, now getting back to what I highlighted, algorithm trading is a computerized execution of financial instruments following a pre following a set of pre specified trading rules and instructions. I mentioned this is extremely important, and it's extremely important because what brokers used to provide to us, which was a valuable service, it's now on the side of the trader, of the buy side trader, it's on the side of the investor. So investors need to be proactive. During algorithmic trading, they are now required to specify that trading goals. These trading goals should be based on the underlying investment objective of the fund traders need to stay if they want to trade fast or slow or how fast. So where we once took for granted our trading, how orders will be transacted, we now have that responsibility of dictating exactly what we want to do. A little bit of my background is, I'm a professor at Fordham University in New York City, and I also have my consulting firm, Cassell research group. What I do with my consulting firm is we assist brokers and investors are making proper algorithmic trading decisions. I provide my algorithms. I provide my analytics to many brokers and hedge funds who are using these models as part of their investment decision, as part of their optimization process prior to have my own firm, I was head of quantitative trading strategies at JP Morgan and execution analysis, or execution and portfolio analysis at UBS. So I'm going to show you exactly what I was doing at these firms, exactly how I partnered with our clients then and also now. Just a little history of algorithmic trading is algorithmic trading was really launched in the mid 90s with instant it quickly grew in the 2000s with the financial crisis and Oh 809. Is when everyone started embracing electronic trading in blue, algorithmic trading was a little bit behind, but it caught up. And remember, the algorithmic trading is a subset of electronic trading, because algorithm trading is the process where algorithms are actually making those execution decisions for us. Now why do we say algorithms are so important? Well, we say that they're important because, for the most part, institutional orders are much larger than 100 shares at a time, these large orders, and also, I should say all orders, these large orders, will cause what we call price impact in the stock that you're transacting. For example, buy orders are going to cause the market price to increase due to the buying pressure. Sell orders is going to cause the market price to decrease due to the selling pressure. So how can investors combat this phenomenon? Well, the way we combat this phenomenon and reduce market impact is by slicing the order and trading over time. If I were to take 100,000 share order and try to execute it in the market immediately, I will have some substantial. Price impact. I'm really going to push that price up. I want to push that price up with my buying pressure, but I don't want to do that. I want to get the best price. So instead of executing, or instead of releasing 100,000 shares into the order immediate into the market. Immediately I want to slice my order and break it up in the pots and trade over time I may break my order into 10 slices of 10,000 shares and trade these 10,000 shares each over you know, 1015 minute period, maybe over half hour period. However, doing this now does reduce my price impact, that we're now going to refer to it as market impact. I am reducing my market impact, but I'm now exposing myself to what we call market risk, timing risk. So the longer I'm in the market, the more I'm exposing my order to potential adverse price movement due to risk. Okay, let's take a look at this. So here's an illustration of market impact. If the stock is just trading around $30 it's bouncing around. I come into the market and I execute my large order. I push the price up. I push it up from 30 to 3025 so this 25 cents is my price impact. Okay, I have a large impact here of 25 cents a share. Now, after I trade, let's look what happens. We get some price reversion. So after my order is finished, I'm no longer pushing that price up, so the price comes back down to a new level. Here, it's 3005 so we say it's a new equilibrium level. So what happens here with market dynamics? So when we look at total market impact, it's broken up into two pieces, the temporary impact, which is the difference from the new equilibrium to my price. So here it's 20 cents a share, and permanent impact, which is five cents a share. So it's important, when we're analyzing market impact, that we look at it in two components, the temporary component, this is due to the liquidity needs of the investor. Okay, I need to offer the market a premium to attract additional sellers into the market to trade with me. Now, permanent impact is due to the information content in the trade. The market perceives every trade as having some information. Why is that party buying an order? Why are they buying all their shares the market? All often perceives disorder is having some information in the trade, or there's some information behind my trade where I believe that the price is undervalued, or it's not properly valued in the market. So after the market sees a very large order, they say, Wow, Rob must know something. The price may be undervalued. It's not 30 maybe the price is 3005 so that's why the price only comes down to 3005 and when we look at a sell order, we get the same exact phenomenon for sell order, okay, the price is around $30 I come in with my large sell order, I push the price down. I push it from 30 to 2975 after I make the trade, the price reverts back up to where it was, but to a new equilibrium. Notice again, it doesn't go up to the $30 it only comes up to 2995 so again, my total impact is 25 cents a share. The temporary impact due to liquidity needs, right? May need to discount the stock price to attract additional buyers, and then the market is also perceiving that my sell order maybe because the stock price is overvalued. It's not at $30 it should be something lower. So it's important that we think about these two components of market impact when we're structuring a trade, when I'm trying to make my trading decision. Okay, now I started to mention that when I sliced my order over. Time, you know, to minimize my market impact, I'm breaking up the order into pieces and trading over time. I'm not going to execute my 100,000 share order immediately, but rather, I'm going to break it up into pieces trade it over time, maybe 10 slices of 10,000 shares each, and I'm going to trade each 10,000 share slice over a half hour period.

Speaker 1  15:26  
So what happens to market impact in this situation? Well, I'm showing with the market impact graph right here the blue line. The blue line shows me how market impact is decreasing as I trade over a longer and longer period of time. If I trade the order immediately, I'm going to exert a lot of price impact, incur a large cost. But as I trade over a longer period of time, quarter of a day, I get a reduction in impact. Half a day more, one day even more. And keep going down, down and down. So this is nice. I always want to get the best prices. So the question comes up, why wouldn't I just trade this over as long of a period of time as possible? Why wouldn't I trade this order over one, two or even three days? Because I could substantially reduce my market impact. So the question came up, do you have access to these slides? Yes, you do. Okay, so that's part of your I guess, your training material, your course material, and to make sure, you know, if I make any changes during the presentation notes, I will re upload exactly what we did today. Okay, and there it is. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, so now an issue, I don't say an issue, but what happens is, as I start trading over a longer period of time, which is terrific to manage my market impact, but doing so exposes my order to more market risk, and that's the orange line, if I trade over a very short period of time, there's not much time, there's not much potential for things to go against me. But as I trade over a quarter of a day, half a day, full day, now, I'm exposing myself to full market risk. My Risk is an increasing function with time. Market impact is a decreasing function with time. Timing, risk is an increasing function of time. So what's in my best interest to reduce my market impact, the blue line is not in my best interest to reduce my risk to reduce the risk of the order. And this is what we refer to in industry as the traders dilemma. Okay, so the traders dilemma is, if I trade too fast, I incur too much market impact, but if I trade too slow, I incur too much market risk. So in other words, if I trade too fast, I move the market. If I trade too slow, the market moves me. So my goal is a trader now in a new electronic environment, is to balance these conflicting expressions, is to balance the trade off between my market impact and timing risk, and the curve up here is a combination of the Two, and depending on the order size, the market conditions, the result of this optimization is going to tell me exactly how long should I take to trade the order. So in this example, the best way for me to trade is to execute this order over point eight five days, a little more than three quarters of a day, little less than a full day. Okay, now, how do we solve this again? We're going to learn how to solve it next week, but what we're doing is we're minimizing the combination of market impact and timing risk. So market impact is in blue. Timing risk is red. And notice that we have another term here, lambda. What is lambda? Well, lambda is the investors level of risk aversion. Each of us has different levels of risk aversion. Some of us may be more risk averse than. And others, some of us may be a little more risk neutral. So some investors will set the lambda higher. So higher may be one and a half to three. Some investors may set lambda lower, like point two, 5.5, so loosely speaking, a lambda equal to one means that the investor is equally concerned about market impact and timing risk. If I'm more concerned about risk, I'll set my lambda greater than one. If I'm more risk neutral, I'll set my lambda less than one. Okay. Now the solution to this optimization problem. So the solution, where I'm saying is the trader's dilemma, is to find the optimal trading time, given the conflicting expressions of market impact decreasing with time and timing, risk increasing with time. Okay, so lambda again, lambda is the investors level of risk aversion, so just a scalar, it's just the value. So lambda equals one indicates the investors equally concerned with market impact and timing risk. If I'm more concerned about risk, if I'm more risk adverse, I'll set my lambda greater than one. If I'm more risk neutral, I'm going to set my lambda less than one. I'm

Speaker 1  21:45  
okay, you will get data. What I'll say we will go through and lesson two, the second lesson we're going to learn how we could create a market impact model, how we could create a timing risk model. So my lecture two, we're going to get into all of the equations. You're going to learn how you could develop a market impact model. You're going to learn the equation for timing risk and also price appreciation, which, in a way, is the alpha of the stock. What I should say is, we're not going to this lecture is not getting into any alpha generating strategies, but I'm going to show you how we can manage alpha alpha during trading. Okay, so

Speaker 1  22:53  
case I don't know how to Yes, the moderator could turn off some of the questions for me, they're just filling up the screen. So if an investor is more risk adverse, no, so if an investor, let me explain. So if an investor is more risk adverse, they're more worried about market risk. Okay, so they want to minimize the market risk. If I'm more risk adverse, I'm very worried about risk, so I want to avoid it. I'm going to avoid risk by trading faster. Okay, if I'm more risk neutral. So risk neutral means, in a way, I'm indifferent for market risk, or not as concerned about market risk. If I'm not that concerned about market risk. I'm going to trade slower. Okay. Now, why would someone be concerned about market risk? Well, someone could be very concerned about market risk because I have an order. I just did my research. I found a stock that's a great value. I found a stock that may be undervalued. I'm worried that the market's going to figure that out later on. You know, I'm smart, but I'm not the only smart person in the market. Everybody who's trading is extremely smart. If I found an opportunity, everyone else will Okay, so I want to execute my order now at the better prices before everyone else figures out that it's a great opportunity. It could be. I'm very worried about risk, because there's a lot of events in the world going on. The markets are more volatile, so the longer I wait, the more potential for prices to go against me. So why would I be risk neutral? So I could be risk neutral, meaning I'm not that concerned about risk, and it's not that I'm not concerned about risk, but it could be that I have several orders to execute several orders. On my blotter, I may be buying 50 names, I may be selling 50 names. Okay, so in a way, I'm indifferent. If the market goes up, my buy orders are more expensive, but my sell orders I will also go up. So I'll sell stock at a higher price. If the market goes down, I'm selling stock at a lower price, but I'm able to buy it at a lower price, so depending on the order characteristics and the number of stocks I'm trading, in that case, you know, I'm low risk, a little more risk neutral, because whatever happens in the market, I'm in a way hedge, because I have both buy and sell orders. Okay, so that's a situation where I could be more risk neutral. So if I'm risk adverse, I set lambda greater than one. If I'm risk neutral, I set lambda less than one, and if I'm equally concerned, I will set my lambda equal to one. Okay, so again, in our second lecture, that's where we're going to get into all of the math behind algorithmic trading. How do we create a market impact model? How do we create a timing risk model? What I want to tell you is, so this is exciting. Market impact models is the holy grail of algorithmic trading. All algorithms are based on their market impact function, the market impact model. Now brokers consider these market impact models, highly proprietary. Okay, extremely proprietary. Brokers will not tell you what their market impact model is. Brokers will not give you insight into how that estimating market impact on what the results are. If you ask a broker, they will talk about their model in very general terms. They do not give any insight into how they calculated market impact. Again, they treat this very proprietary. But why a broker is so secret? So there are two reasons. One is, you know, it is a proprietary model. They spent a lot of time and resources, building it, creating it. Okay, I get that that's sort of their value as a broker. But the second part is just as important, brokers don't want you to be able to evaluate their model. Is their model good? Is their model not good. So they don't want to give you, as the investor, information where you can now assess their execution quality. The last thing any broker wants is for an investor to evaluate their performance quality and determine if they're doing a good job or not a good job. I'm going to show you everything. Brokers don't want you to know exactly what I do with my clients when I'm assessing broker performance. Okay, let's talk a little bit about the financial landscape. Let's start at the beginning. So we've all probably seen this, the investment cycle, where investors first allocate their dollars across different asset classes, bonds, stocks, maybe commodities. And even now, it's the alternatives, with cryptos. Once I determine how many dollars I'm going to put in an asset class, let's say equity. I now go and I construct my portfolio. I determine exactly what I want to buy and sell. The next step is that implementation. Let me go out, let me buy and sell these stocks. And then after we buy and sell the stocks, we move into what we call the portfolio attribution phase. This is where we evaluate. I'm usually on a quarterly basis. Now it's even a monthly basis. How close were my actual returns to my expected returns? Where did the returns come from? Was it driven by a certain sector? Is it due to economic events? Where did my risk come from? So I'm constantly learning so portfolio attribution is, we'll call that assessment phase, breakdown of returns, where it's coming from, comparing the actual with my expectations. And then we go into our asset allocation, and we start all over again.

Speaker 1  29:58  
Let's talk a little bit about this point. Folio construction phase now, okay, because I mentioned that your trading needs to be consistent with your investment objective. Different people have different investment objectives. Okay, so depending on that investment objective, we're all going to trade in a different manner, so you and I can have the same exact order. It could be buy 100,000 shares of stock XYZ, buy it now. We have access to the same information, the same market impact data, but you and I may have a completely different execution strategy, you may trade slowly. I may trade fast. You may not have that need for urgency, whereas I do have this need for urgency. So why would we be different? Why would you and I trade different if we have the same exact order at the same exact time and the same exact information about the market at that time. Well, the reason comes down to our investment objective. So let's talk about investment objectives from the perspective of a portfolio manager. So when we talk about portfolio management, we typically talk about two types of management styles, passive and active, and this is going to dictate our trading rates. So passive manager is a manager who's investing in an index fund or even an ETF. A passive manager is just buying stocks that are in the index or ETF, and they sell stock when a stock is removed from the index or from an ETF. So a lot of times we say passive manager is an informationless investor that they're trading. They're making information decisions not based on any type of investment information, but solely If a stock is in the index, okay, solely if it's in an index, we will add stocks to the portfolio if stocks are being added to an index, and we sell stock if stocks are being removed from the index. So whatever that indexing company does, whatever the ETF company does, if I'm using an ETF as a benchmark, that's what I'm going to do as well. So when I say information lists, I'm making buy and sell decisions without any expectations in the future. Okay, I don't have expectations that the stock is going to outperform the market if I'm buying, I don't have any expectations that's going to underperform the market if I'm selling, I'm only buying selling again based on what's in the index. If I'm buying stock, because it's in the index, I don't have a belief that it's mispriced in the market right now, or that it's this exceptional long term value again, I'm just buying and selling because it's there now. The other type of portfolio management style is what we call active management, okay? This is where investors are seeking value. They're trying to determine on their own, what stock should they buy and hold in a portfolio? So I'm breaking this up into three pieces. We have quantitative analysis. So quantitative analysis is for an investor who is really trading to balance the trade off between risk and return. I think that's the best way to describe it. I have expectations or a need to achieve a certain return, so I want to minimum, find a portfolio with a minimum risk for that return. So quantitative management is all about balancing risk, reward trade off. Another type of active management is fundamental analysis. So this is where an investor is going to evaluate company fundamentals, the balance sheet, the income statement, derive cash flows for the company. Where's the cash flow coming from? Where's it going? They're going to perform discounted cash flow analysis based on future projections. They're going to perform financial statement analysis, and they're going to determine what stocks are undervalued, what stocks are overvalued? I'm going to buy the stocks undervalued. I'm going to sell the stocks that are overvalued. I'm going to compare the financial ratios to a peer group. I'm going to try to determine if stocks are expected to outperform their peer group. If so, I'll buy them underperform their peer group. I won't buy. Buy them, or I will short or I will short them. So I may be buying stocks that are undervalued. And finally, technical analysis. I want to use this as a very general term. I may be trading off different market signals that I develop, signals tell me to buy or sell. Okay, so the technical analysis is based on market data. I may be trading based on a price differential, maybe. Now what a lot of funds are using is machine learning to figure out a signal, when to buy, when to sell. So each of these strategies now, as we'll call them, will dictate a different trading goal, a different implementation strategy. Okay, so

Speaker 1  36:04  
Okay, so now let's talk about we have an order. So I have my order to buy, I have my order to sell, or I may have a group of orders. So a group of orders in industry, we call a trade list, a program, a portfolio. Okay? Now it used to be that I would send that my orders to a broker, and the brokers would execute on the exchange where the stock is listed. So in the US, when I started my career, we really had two exchanges, New York Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ market. So stocks that were listed on the New York Stock Exchange, like IBM GE would trade only on the New York Stock Exchange. That was easy. We knew where to trade. We knew where the liquidity was. Stocks that traded in at the time it was called the OTC market, the NASDAQ market. And these were more the technology stocks, like Microsoft, Google, Apple, these stocks would trade through a network of market makers, but it would be at the NASDAQ system in the NASDAQ market. So depending on the stock, we knew where the liquidity was, we knew where it traded. Fast forward to today, however, and the trading environment has completely changed. Now we don't talk about exchanges, but we use more of a general term trading venues. And trading venues consist of exchanges ATS is alternative trading systems and dock pools, okay, in the US, where used to be primarily two exchanges, now we have six, 810, different exchanges where I could buy and sell stock. They have a slew of alternative trading systems, and I that could be 2030, even 40 dog pools. So the number of venues, the number of locations where it can actually execute orders, is so large, it makes it so difficult for a human person to execute orders, because I want the best prices. I want to learn where to trade. So I need to observe what the current prices are all these destinations. I need to look at the market data for all these destinations. There's a lot of information that I'm taking in. So let's talk about what these are first. What is a stock exchange? So stock exchange is exactly what we mean by a traditional exchange. It's where companies have their listings. It's where companies have their IPOs. A company that's listed on an exchange is required to provide their financial filings, give an update on their balance sheet, income, statement, earnings, and companies need to do this on a quarterly basis, so that's your traditional exchange function. But on the trading side, for us, an exchange is simply a location to buy and sell stock, right? It's a marketplace. A stock exchange maintains what we call an order book. An order book is a collection of buy orders and sell orders. So it's an order book with bids and asks, and we're going to show what the order book looks like, and, you know, a few slides down, or during, you know, today's session, it may be after the break. Okay, but a stock exchange is also going to publicly disseminate their prices. Whenever a trade occurs on an exchange, that price is disseminated to the public. Exchanges will also disseminate they'll also publicly show what their best quotes are, what the price is to buy on their system, what the price is to sell on that system, okay? And for us, so what? So I'm getting to the difference between the stock exchange and ATS. I'm not up to the ATS yet. I'm going to go through all three of these. Okay,

Speaker 1  40:48  
so I think what I'm going to do is, when your questions come up, you know, if I'm going to get to it the next slide or two, I'm going to let let the questions go, and then maybe I'll, every so often, I will go back and I will summarize. You know what my answers are. So again, I'm talking right now about the three different venues. Okay, I'm still up to the stock exchange. I haven't spoken about the ATS yet, a dog ball, I will. I'm not finished with this slide. Okay, I'm going to get to all of them now for us again, a stock exchange will publicly disseminate their prices. What are the best prices to buy and ask if you want to trade with the order at a different price, a limit order, you will see their order book, which is their cue the line. You'll be able to see how many orders are ahead of you. So you'll be able to see how many orders need to execute at a price before your order will be executed. So stock exchanges will simply match orders, match buy orders and sell orders based on the market prices or based on the prices dictated by the investor. Now, a stock exchange also has a function that's important where they need to maintain fair and orderly market. Okay? So what this means is exchanges need to provide liquidity. So if I want to buy stock and there are no sellers, the stock exchange is going to have to step in and sell shares to me. If I'm selling stock on an exchange and there are no buyers, the exchange is going to buy orders, buy shares from me. So it's not necessarily the exchange that's doing it, but the exchanges now still have a what we call a specialist, but it's the electronic specialist, and depending on the market, we have different names. It could be designated market maker, it could be denoted as liquidity provider, but exchanges need to maintain fair and orderly prices. If prices become too volatile, exchanges may have what we call halt they're going to halt trading. They're going to stop trading so the market could sit back and evaluate what those true prices are. Why are prices jumping around? Let's stop let's let everybody think about the information. A stock exchange is what we call a displayed market. It's a displayed market. It's a displayed market, because they are disseminating their prices, what their best prices are and what their order book is. Okay. Now let's talk about an alternative trading system. So an alternative trading system is a venue where we can go to to buy stock, to transact our shares. So it's simply, in the simplest terms, it's a location to buy and sell stock. So an alternative trading system is known as an ATS. Sometimes it's known as an ECN, electronic communication network. Now the ATS also has an order book with buy orders and sell orders. ATS is publicly disseminate their prices, and they are known as a displayed market. Okay, they're also known as a displayed market. It because they're showing what the best prices are on their system, the best buy price, the best sell price, and they will show their order book. So the order book is a collection of all buy and sell orders. So because they're disseminating the prices to the public forum. It's known as a displayed market. Now the difference between the ATS and an exchange is the ATSs are not required to maintain a fair and orderly market. So if I want to buy stock on an ATS and there are no sellers, it's not going to get done. If there are no sellers, there's no one for me to buy from. If I want to sell stock on an ATS, and there are no parties willing to buy stock. If there are no buy orders, I'm not going to get my order done. So ATS is through regulations are not required to maintain a fair and orderly market. If there are no parties looking to buy or sell orders will not be matched. Okay. So how do exchanges fulfill buy and sell orders. So exchanges have what we call specialists, the same way New York Stock Exchange traditionally had the manual specialists. Specialist firms are required to provide liquidity to buy shares and sell shares. Okay? And we're going to talk into what benefits do they get from this? But they're buying at the bid price. They're always buying at the lower price. They're selling it at a higher price, and depending on the venue, these electronic specialists may also get what we call rebates. Okay, so how do exchanges so the exchanges fulfill buying sell orders through their specialists. Their specialist firms are tasked with providing liquidity. That's their job. Okay? How does an exchange determine the prices to buy shares in an environment with no liquidity, so the exchange doesn't determine the prices. It's the specialists, it's the electronic specialists at exchanges who will deem what that fair price is, what they're willing to buy and sell Okay, as an ATS used primarily for effect, so I'm not even talking about different asset classes. All I'm doing is explaining the difference between an exchange and an ATS. ATS are used in all for all different asset classes, equity markets, debt markets, FX markets, currency markets, okay, so I meant maintaining fair prices. It's on the market price only. So I'm not sure what that means. It's on the market price only. Okay, but let me get into dark pools. Maybe this will answer the question, what exactly is a dark pool? Now, okay, so dark pool is similar to an exchange in an ATS, and that it's a location to buy and sell stock. Okay, so just like our ATS and our stock exchange, it's a location to buy and sell stock, okay? It does have, what we call it, well, I should say, does have an order book. I'm trying to get different color coding here. So does have an order book with bids and asks, like the ATS, like the exchange does, but it's order book is hidden. Do? So the order book of a dog pool is not disseminated to the public. So we don't know. We can't see the prices on a dark pool. I don't see what investors what prices investors are looking to buy at. I can't see what investors looking to sell at. I don't see the buy orders. I don't see the sell orders. The order book of a dog pool is completely hidden to the public, and hence the name we call a dog pool, because we're not provided with any information. There's no dissemination of orders. There's no dissemination of prices, but a dog pool does match orders. It does match buy and sell orders like the stock exchange, like the ATS and the dog pool will typically match an order. So if it has a buy order and a sell order, it typically matches the order at the midpoint of the best bid and offer.

Speaker 1  50:34  
Okay. Now, when an order executes in a stock exchange or an ATS, it's publicly disseminated. The old term for this would is print. A trade would print. What that means when a trade is printed is that trade that executed is disseminated to the public, telling the public, hey, a trade just occurred for 100 shares at $30 500 shares traded at 3001, maybe 1000 shares traded at 2990, okay, so that information is disseminated to the public, and part of this print information is The location of that trade. So we know what facility, where did it trade? Did it trade at an exchange like the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ? Did it trade in the an alternative trading system and the US used to be, you know, Edge a, Edge B, bats X or batch y, backs, z, okay. When a trade occurs on a dark pool, they are printed, they are disseminated. And that's the only time we adopt pool releases any information, but it's printed, it's disseminated on more of a general market tape. It's just reported to the public that a trade occurred. All we know is that occurred on a dog pool. I don't know which dog pool it could be any of the 2030, or 40 dog pools in the US. A breakdown of volume on dog pulls. His dog pulls, probably doing about 30 to 35% of the volume. Okay,

Speaker 1  52:37  
so I meant, right? One question. I'm not sure that what it means will the market orders taken on dark bulls. So market orders on dog polls are not shown on the exchange volumes. It's and it's, you know, a separate tape. We just know trades in a dog pool. So why would a buyer prefer each type of trading venue and why. So again, think about the difference. So if I want to buy shares, I need to trade immediately. I could go to the stock exchange or an ATS, they have their order book. So if I want to buy immediately, I could always buy with the market order at the ask price. Remember, I typically with the market order, I'll buy the ask, I'll sell the bid. If I want to enter a limit order, I can go to a stock exchange or an ATS, enter my limit order, and I'm going to evaluate how many orders are in front of me. How long am I going to have to wait for my order to be executed? We're going to talk a little bit about the order book and entering information shortly. Okay, now, if I really need to get an order done and there's no liquidity, that's a situation where I would go to an exchange over an ATS for the most part, when we're trading, there's no difference between an exchange and an ATS. When the difference comes into play is when I need liquidity. Remember, an ATS has no obligations to provide liquidity. They have no obligations to maintain fair and orderly prices. When I have a need for liquidity, I will go to the the exchange, and a lot of times, we will see that the volumes on exchanges increase at the close because exchanges have a closing auction, so a system to match as many shares as they can at the closing price. Okay, okay, so if the order book is hidden, how do we know the bid and ask price? And that's it. We don't. I don't know what the bid and ask prices are on a dark pool. Okay, so let's go back to one of my first questions that I presented to the class. What if I want to trade 100,000 shares of ABC? I want to trade 100,000 shares if I release it to the market immediately, the market sees the order, the market's going to react if I tell the market I want to buy 100,000 shares of ABC, if the price is $30 this, sellers are going to typically increase their price, then they know I'm going to have to pay up. So we know that we don't want to release 100,000 share order. I want to release my I want to slice my order into pieces trade over time. So I would never enter my full order into an exchange or an ATS. I'd have too much immediate price impact. But how about a dark pool? So if I enter my 100,000 share trade into a dark pool, this is nice for me. Nobody's going to see my order. Remember, it's dark. It's hidden. Nobody has access to the orders in the dark pool. So in a way, I could enter my entire order wait for sellers to come transact with them. I'm not moving the price, or at least my order when it enters the market. Doesn't have that immediate impact for moving the price, okay, of course, nobody sees it. So this is a big advantage to me, that I connected the order in a dog pool. But the disadvantage is I don't know what's going on in a dog pool. So if I enter my order, 100,000 shares, I may start transacting with investors. I'll see 100 shares, trades, another 100, 1000 maybe 5000 maybe 1000 maybe 100 I will see my order being executed, which is great for me. Okay, and dark pools, I'm something with a bid and offer price. So dark pools, and so I highlighted this term are going to match orders at the midpoint of the best bidding offers, the nbbo we're talking about, that's the national best bid and offer across all exchanges. So I have a safety net with dog pools that my trades are going to occur at the midpoint of the bid ask spread, which is also good for me. I'm not paying up. I'm not buying at the ask. I'm not selling down at the lower price on the bid. So this is good for me, but what if I don't get an order? What if my shares aren't being transacted? What's going on? Well, I don't know. I can't ascertain the reason in a dark pool, but it could be due to many different reasons. One, it could be that there are no sellers in the dog pool. Okay, that there's no sell liquidity. They're just buy orders. Okay, so I need to wait for orders to come and now with a sell order, if someone needs to sell immediately. They can't see my buy order, so they don't know if there's any liquidity in the dog pulse, and they may go to another venue. Okay, if my order is not getting done in a dog pool, it could also mean that there are sellers, but nobody's willing to sell at my price. So if I have a order, buy order, I'll say it's a limit order. I'll be willing to pay up to $31 so as long as the midpoint of the bid ask spread is $31 or less, I'm willing to transact. But what if sellers are only willing to sell at $32 and higher. In that case, my order will not be transacted. Okay, so I'm not getting any executions. I'm not getting any transactions, and I don't know why. Okay, so it could be that there are no sell orders. It could be that there are sell orders, but nobody's willing to transact at my price, so I don't even know that I could raise my price and get shares done. And finally, there's one more reason why my orders may not be getting executed in a dog pool. It could be that there are so many other buy orders ahead of me. It's not my turn yet. So I'm on a line, I'm on a queue, and it could be that orders are transacting, but it's not my turn yet. And because information is not given to me, it's not given to anyone, I don't know if. If I'm next, if I'm going to be the next order executed, or if there are 100 orders ahead of me, maybe even 1000 orders ahead of me. Okay, so the three reasons why may not get executed. Dog pool is one, there's no liquidity. Remember, exchanges are required to provide liquidity. Number two, it could be there's liquidity, but no one's willing to sell down to my price yet. Or three, there are a lot of sellers willing to transact at my price, but it's not my turn yet. I have to wait online. I have to wait until it's my turn. Unfortunately, in a dog pool. I don't know how long that line is. Is there only a couple people ahead of me? Which is, okay? Well, could it be 100 or 1000 orders ahead of me? Okay, so dog pools maintained orders the same way. ATS is an exchanges do, but they just don't provide that information to investors. So, um, we don't the hidden orders on dog pulls. We don't get to know so, so it's not the bid and ask price. Um, there's a question, if the order books are hidden, then how do we get to know the bid and ask price? So, I think I know what you mean, if not put in the question again, so it's not, how do we get to know the bid and ask price? So dog pools don't have bid and ask prices that are disseminated to the market. Okay, the orders have bid and ask prices, and that's hidden, so we will never get to know that information. So that's not provided to anyone. Now, orders on dog polls are going to execute at the midpoint of the best market bidding offer, at the midpoint of the best bid and ask, okay, so it's the rest of the market that determines the bid, ask spread, and the dog pool executes at that midpoint. Okay, we talked about why different investors would prefer different locations. Okay, again, I don't know what maintaining a fair market. It's on the market price. Why do dog pools exist?

Speaker 1  1:02:26  
Well, good question. You know, it's a private company looking to make money. Okay, they provide a valuable service. I can enter a very large order on the dog pool. No one sees the order, so I don't have that immediate effect in, you know, my price. Yeah, I don't have that immediate price impact on the market. So that's good for me. Okay, so within what timeframe a dog pulls required to report it to the public? So all trades are required to be reported to the public at the same time. So for dog pools, it's the same as exchanges. And ATS is there's no difference. The timeframe depends, really, in the country where you are. And I should say that some countries have different rules and requirements for dark pool. So it's difficult to say in the US there's no difference. Dog pools have to report it within the same timeframe as exchanges ATS is. And I would say that, you know, the reporting is, is immediate. It is within a few seconds where, when I started, venues would hold trades up to the they would have to report within 90 seconds. Okay, so how can we trust the volume in the order book and market orders taken? So I'm not sure what you mean by how do we trust the volume? I'm not sure what that means, but if there's an order in the dark pool, you will transact with it. Okay, so it's not fake volume. If there's an order in a dog pool, it is there to transact with. So once you transact with it, it's a trade you've locked in that venue, that dog pool is legally obligated to deliver you shares or deliver you funds. Okay? If you're asking different questions, I'm not sure you may be asking different question, referring to the quality of the volume. Is it fake orders or something? So that we're not talking about here, so any order in a dark. Pool at any venue is a real order. So it's not that we trust it or not. It's there. You could transact with it. Okay?

Speaker 1  1:05:15  
So dog pools will report their trades on two different reporting venues. One is called the TRF, the trade reporting facility, and there's another one in US called the ADF, the alternative display facility. In these situations, all we do is we know that a trade occurred in a dark pool, and we have the price and the quantity, we don't know which dog pool that's not provided.

Speaker 1  1:05:51  
So again, how are the prices fair in a dog pool? So dog pools always match orders at the midpoint of the market, best bid and offer. I don't know anything that's less fair than that. That's exactly fair. That's the midpoint of what of the entire market. Okay, so that's as fair as we can be. It's up to the investor to specify if they're willing to pay that price or sell at that price. So it's up to the investor if they're willing to transact at those prices. But if you give somebody the best market price that's as fair as you can be, sort of like an electronic store you're looking to buy a new piece of electronic and that store that you go to will give you the best advertised price for that piece of equipment. And you know, we do get that, and we do get that in your real life with venues. Okay, I'm going to go on. So I'm a lot of questions just starting to get off track, and a lot of these questions I've answered, okay, so I'm hoping the moderator will clear these questions that I've answered. Okay. I'm

Speaker 1  1:07:25  
so let me jump down to let's talk about the broker dealer, trading desk. Okay, so for example, if dark pools matches, have a question, if the dark pool matches orders the midpoint, can't we specify the limit order? So I don't know what limit order type of order is. I think that you mean, can't we specify the Limit Price? So yes, I did say that orders are entered into a dark pool with prices that a buyer is willing to pay up, buy up to or sell down to. So if the midpoint is outside of the range of the investors limit order, that investor will not trade. The only trades that will occur is if party has a limit order so that that midpoint of the bid office spread is within that range, so no one's going To have an execution if it's outside their range. So

Speaker 1  1:08:44  
okay, I've mentioned a few times now that dog pool trades are printed. They're printed on two facilities, so that the TRF does not display buyer and sellers and dog pools and um, that depends on the market, the country and the US, the buyer and seller is never disseminated. You never get to see who that buyer or seller is. You don't get to see if it's a broker on which broker did the trade, which investors some markets, you will see who the broker was.

Unknown Speaker  1:09:30  
So we're not going to get into probabilities of filling,

Speaker 1  1:09:39  
you know, orders on a dark pool. Okay, let some, let a lot of the questions on dark pool is getting off track now. Okay, just a lot of questions getting thrown here. Many, many are off topic. So if the moderator, if we could close these because it's filling up. Important questions I can't see at the break. If you have any questions about dog pools, I will answer them, okay, but it's getting me off topic. I'm happy to talk about any questions you have at the break or at the end of the class. Okay, most of these have been answered. Okay, so I don't mind re answering questions, but let's I will do it at the end. Okay, so I hope that's fair for everyone. Okay, so now I want to talk about the broker dealer, trading desk. So I Okay, so again, I skip the questions that are coming until we have a break, unless it has to do with my slides. Okay, especially ones that are off topic and the ones that okay. What will be useful between OTC and dog pools? I'm not sure what that means, sir. What will be useful between OTs, OTC and dog pools, I'm not sure what that means. So again, I'm going to move on. Okay, so let's talk about the broker dealer trading desks. So a broker dealer will have three trading desks, okay, and this is a full scale the larger broker dealers. I'm a cash desk, a program desk and an electronic desk, and they each serve different functions within trading. They each serve different investor goals and objectives. Okay, so depending on what you're transacting, why, what your needs are, you will direct an order to one of these different desks. So the first one is what we call a cash desk. So a cash desk is also the single stock desk at a broker, the block desk, and it's for investors who are transacting your individual orders, single orders. It could be one single order. It could be a group of single orders, 2345, okay, an investor who's concerned about price movement over the day, sometimes we call the price movement alpha or trend or momentum. These investors will typically transact the order at a cash desk. And they go to the cash desk because they're relying on the cash desk trader traders expertise and knowledge of how the stock trades, how the sector trades. For example, if I'm buying a stock ABC, and I'm buying that large order, 100,000 shares, I'm going to give that order to the broker. 100,000 shares. I want the broker to execute this for me. Okay, so the broker is going to slice the order, trade the order over time, and I'm relying on that broker's expertise in case the market's going up. I want the broker to understand, or have a feeling, is the price going up because it's the order that's driving the price up, or is the market going up? And I want that broker to really understand if the stock exhibits mean reversion. So if the broker slows down on the trading, will the price come back down, or is the stock exhibiting more momentum? So once it starts going up, it's going to continue to go up. So I'm relying on the broker's expertise on how the stock and sector trades, so that they can make revisions to my algorithm so that they can make revisions to the slicing strategy either going faster or slower. I'm relying on the broker's expertise of understanding market conditions and momentum conditions in the stock Okay, now let's say and a cash desk is primarily used by fundamental managers, managers who are making decisions based on company financials, balance sheet, income statement, discounted cash flows that fundamental manager function. Now we also have that quantitative manager. Quantitative managers managing the risk reward trade off. A quantitative manager will often use optimization programs. They'll use optimizers. They'll use other you. Um, quantitative models, and these models are will typically provide a group of stocks to buy and sell. Okay, so when I have a group a list of stocks to buy and sell, um, I'm typically buying some names selling some names. So in these situations where I have a group of stock to buy, and these groups, groups are known as programs, baskets, trade lists, portfolios. I'm going to give that order to the broker, and I want the broker to manage the risk of these names. Okay, I may need the manager to employ some sort of cash balancing constraint, whereas I want my sell orders to finance my buy orders. If I'm rebalancing my portfolio, I may want to ensure that my buy dollars matches my sell dollars of the unexecuted shares as a way to manage the riskiness of my portfolio. But an investor is going to use a program desk when they're concerned about risk management. I want to ensure that I stay hedged if the market goes up or down, I want my net cash position to remain unchanged. So how does this happen? If the market goes up, it's going to cost me more money to buy stock, but I'm selling stock at a higher price, which is good, my higher sales will offset the higher buys. If the market goes down, I'm buying stock at a lower price. That's good for me, but I'm also selling at a lower price. I'm taking in less dollars there, but that balances so as long as my position stays as well hedged, I'm in a good situation. So I'll use a program desk to manage the hedge to manage the risk of my list. Now on the other side, we have the electronic desk. So an electronic desk is used by investors to trade in the single stocks or baskets an investor who wants full control of their order. They want to remain anonymous. They want access to liquidity. They're going to utilize a broker's electronic desk. Okay? And the larger brokers have two different parts of their electronic desk. It's the algorithmic trading, where they provide access to the algorithms, to their investors, to their clients. These clients will then you'll manage those algorithms exactly as they want to. They'll control how fast or how slow that algorithm trades. Okay. On the other side is DMA. DMA is direct market access. So direct market access is a way for investors to be connected to the different trade venues, liquidity pools. Remember all those venues we talked about a little while ago? Exchanges ATS and dog pools, sometimes a client and investor only wants access to those venues. They have their own algorithms, but they still need the connectivity. So brokers also provide this connectivity to their investors. Okay, let me jump to so a little bit with the participants. So who are our trading participants? I think this is nice. We have the traditional asset managers, we have hedge funds, we have the auto market makers, we call Amm. So there are a lot of parties who are trading in the market. They're providing the old function that specialists and market makers did okay, but they do so with their prices. We have retail traders. Now that's a big part of the market. So these are individuals, wealth managers, all the different generations. Now, we used to call the retail investors mom and pops, but that's no longer true.

Speaker 1  1:19:30  
We have our traditional proprietary trading groups. So these are private companies and individuals who trading their own dollars, their own funds, seeking to make a profit, and they use quantitative and statistical models. Now they're programming the computers to make decisions using complex mathematical. Of algorithms, an auto market maker I mentioned is going to seek to make a profit by buying at the bid, selling at the ask. We often, often call this spread trading or rebate trading. An auto market maker provides liquidity and different exchanges and venues have different names for these, like the DMM direct market maker. QMM is a qualified market maker. Amm is just a general term for auto market making, someone who's looking to make money on the bid office spread. Okay. Finally, we have this new collection of traders, and it's a high frequency traders. So high frequency traders behave like a prop trading group or a hedge fund. They're private companies. It's either individuals or teams a high frequency firm is going to get into the market making activities. So they want to buy the bid, sell at the ask, and make the spreads. They want to profit from the spreads. They also look to profit from rebates. We're going to get into what rebates are. How can we make rebates from the different destinations, the different locations. And high frequency traders will really look at the data. They're going to try to uncover buying and selling patterns. They're trying to figure out if there's a large order in the market is someone buying a large number of shares or selling a large number of shares. For example, my 100,000 share order that I sliced the order and I'm trading over time by breaking the order up into 10 slices of 10,000 shares and then trading those 10,000 shares over half hour period, high frequency traders are trying to figure out if there's a large order in the market, because if they do, if they figure out, Hey, Rob buying shares, what they're going to do is stop buying shares and competing with me. They're going to compete with me for the available liquidity push the price up, and once they've acquired enough shares, they're going to turn around and sell me those shares at a higher price. So when we create algorithms, we're also a big part of the trading algorithms. Is disguising what we're doing, hiding our true trading intentions. We're doing this by randomizing orders, not trying to trade in a manner that is not giving away our full order. What I'm trying to accomplish, what I'm trying to do. Okay, so is there any way to distinguish between prop trading and AMMS? No, there isn't the same way that when you look in an order, I don't know if it's the auto market maker, a high frequency trader, a traditional asset manager or a hedge fund, just there's no way to differentiate, because all we're doing is seeing that a trade occurred at a certain price and at a certain destination. Okay? Any way to distinguish between proprietary trade? Okay? That answered. Okay, let's just look at what the breakdown is. And I have to update this, but it's similar breakdown. Now, asset managers are probably comprising about 35% of the market volume. Market making activity is about 10% hedge funds, 22% retail investors, 10% and the high frequency trading about 25% of market volume. So the high frequency traders are a large percentage, but not as large as what a lot of parties claim it is okay.

Speaker 1  1:24:32  
Okay, so high frequency traders do? High Frequency Traders use order ID to find a particular trader is making a huge order. I'm good question, and I'd say yes, whenever possible, of course, they will Okay, however, and I. Most markets, the or there is no order ID provided to investors to the public, so the public never sees any information about who that investor was, who transacted the order Okay, so in the US, we there's no order ID that is disseminated to the public so high frequency traders can't rely on any order ID. Some markets will report the broker who's executed a trade. Okay, so here's a situation where you might be able to figure something out about a broker. It still may be difficult. Let's say if a broker transacts for 1000 clients, or you know, it's a broker, you don't know what, Any who, any of the clients are. You don't know if someone's buying or someone selling. So that's a situation where you even have the broker ID, you still can't ascertain any information. An example where you could possibly get information is, let's say there's a new broker who enters a market to trade, and we all know that this broker is transacting. They just got a big client, one of the largest pension funds in the country, and that broker only has one client. Now, when that broker is transacting in the market, we know who the client is, okay, but I'd say investors are pretty smart about that. When they're picking their brokers for executions, they don't want to convey any information about their investment objectives to the public. Okay, let's talk about trading algorithms. Okay, so what are trading algorithms? I'm going to talk about three different types of trading algorithms because I don't say there's a lot of confusion about trading algorithms, but different trading algorithms for different parties or for different types of trading. The first, and this is the biggest, it's the execution algorithms. So these algorithms tasked with transacting in order that was entered by a portfolio manager and determined outside of the system. So investors will specify the transaction rules to the algorithms at the beginning of trading, and then the algorithm will go and trade the order on behalf of the portfolio manager. Now this portfolio manager could be employing a fundamental strategy. It

Speaker 1  1:27:54  
could be, could be a portfolio optimizer. It could be, you know, any type of strategy, but they're determining what they want to buy and sell outside the algorithm, and then they enter that order into the algorithm, and the algorithm executes an order that's already been determined. So the execution algos, the order is determined by Portfolio Manager using some system, and then that order is entered into the algorithm. Now we have what we call quant trading algorithms. So quant algos are algorithms that are making decisions in real time based on market signals based on mispricing. So these algorithms are tasked with figuring out what to buy and sell in real time, and then they execute the orders in real time. So the quant algorithms make making both the Buy Sell decision, and then they're transacting those orders. A quant trading algorithm will use mathematical models, mathematical methodologies. They'll rely on market signals, maybe machine learning. They will utilize what we call stat OB strategies, statistical arbitrage, and they may be using some sort of past trading algorithm, it may be they may be running some portfolio optimization throughout the day, but quant trading algorithms are looking to achieve a profit by making an investment decision. So they make both the. Buy decision, buy, sell decision, and they do the executions now high frequency trading algorithms. Can think about these as more general term liquidity algorithms. These are algorithms that are looking to make money from the liquidity in the stock. So they're employing amm tactics. I saw a question before, what is Amm? So amm is auto market making? Market making really means I'm having order at the bid and an offer at the ask. I'm looking to buy the bid and sell at the ask. So these algorithms could have bids and offer prices at all venues, all destinations. They're looking to buy the lower price and sell the higher price and collect the spread. These algorithms are also looking to make money by what is known as a rebate. So some venues will provide you a rebate if you enter an order onto their system. So if you take liquidity, they're charging you a fee, but if you bring them liquidity, you receive a rebate. We're going to get into this more at the end of the break. Okay, so high frequency trading also consists of trying to uncover buying and selling trends in the market. If I could uncover a buying a buy trend or a sell trend, if I could uncover a large market order, that's terrific information for me that's very valuable, because if I know there's a large order, I can start competing with that order to buy shares. And once I've acquired the shares, I'll turn around and I'll sell it to that buyer. Same thing, if I uncover a large sell order, I'm going to compete with that order to sell shares. And by competing, I'm further pushing the price down. And once I've reached a certain number of shares, I'll turn around and I will start buying shares from that party at a lower price. So I want to exploit information about order trends, about buy orders and sell orders. Okay, so I saw something, I thought it was arbitrage. So, yes, arbitrage is part of quant trading, because you're looking to make a profit based on a real information set market signal now to arbitrage that we never know for certain. Well, arbitrage opportunities do come into the market time to time. In academia, we say arbitrage opportunities don't exist. In reality, they do exist a lot, but they're extremely short lived, as soon as they appear somebody's taking advantage of them. Okay, is high frequency trading expensive to set up, so it's extremely expensive to set up market data fees, connectivity fees, extremely, extremely expensive, and that's the biggest barrier to entry for high frequency trading, the cost, the connectivity cost, the data cost, and also, if you really want to compete in the market, you need The fastest computer systems. You need the fastest computer code, and you really need to, I think we'll talk about this after the break. Be co located. You need your server at the exchanges so you can see those prices without any latency. Okay, so how does someone get into the high frequency game. How do you become a high frequency trader? So extremely, extremely expensive. What people do is they will join a high frequency firm. Could be something like tower group. It could be t squared in the US millennial or millennium, there are a lot of high frequency trading shops, high frequency trading firms that provide you with access to Data, access to the venues. In return they expect a percentage of your trading profit. So if you're profitable, that's okay, but if you're not making money, they're not going to keep you around. You.

Speaker 1  1:35:01  
Okay, let's talk about, you know, a couple more things, and then we'll take a break, I think, few more slides. So trading algorithms, algorithms, we typically talk about algorithms that trade aggressively. So these algorithms where I want you to get me done, take all liquidity at a certain price or better. So an aggressive algorithm is going to use more market orders than limit orders. A passive algorithm, this is an algorithm that's going to make a use of more limit orders than market orders. They may be utilizing dark poles crossing systems, okay, they're in no hurry to get the order done, so if they have to wait a while for sellers to come into the market, if they're buying, they're okay with that. Okay? Majority of the orders, however, are known as the working order algorithms, and these are the algorithms that balance the trade off between cost and risk, between market impact and timing risk. These are orders that manage the placement of market and limit orders. That sort of question came up. Then it disappeared. How do we something to the fact about market and limit orders. Oh, so we're not going to get into how do you create a limit order for dog pool? So we really don't create specific limit orders for dog pools, but we all looking at the probability of fills. I'm going to show a little bit of probability of fills for the displayed venues. Dark pool is a little more complicated. It's got the focus of my two sessions, something a little more advanced, okay, but investors do utilize limit order models, and the limit order models will determine for let's get back to my 100,000 share order. I'm going to break it up into 10 slices of 10,000 shares. I have 10,000 shares I need to execute next half hour. I'm going to utilize what we call a limit order model. And that limit order model tells me of the 10,000 shares, how many shares can I trade with a limit order? How many should I share? Should I be transacting with a market order? Once I've determined this, the next step is, where do I route the orders? Where do I place the orders? Okay, the working orders will also determine what types of algorithms should we use, VWAP, twap, POV, implementation, shortfall, or should be through an optimization process. This is all going to be the focus of session two, but the working order, order algorithms is a big, big part of algorithmic trading. Okay, okay. So a couple more slides, and we'll take a break. So I mentioned about I'm slicing strategies. My 100,000 share order. I'm going to break up into 10,000 share lots and trade over time. You know, how do I come up? How do I slice this strategy? Because all I mentioned was it be appropriate to slice an order. Okay, so there are three different ways to slice orders that we use. One is called time based. So the time basis simply trade a specified number of shares at different times during the day. For example, trade 25,000 shares in my order, between 930 and 10. Then trade in 15,000 shares between 10 and 1030 trade 10,000 shares between 1030 and 11. So depending on the time and the period, I know how many shares I need to execute, okay? And I'm going to execute these this number of shares, no matter what the market volume is. Another way to slice an order is what we call volume based slicing, and this is where I'm going to participate with this specified amount of volume, for example, 10% so we have algorithms I'm known as POV percentage of volume. So a POV 10% algorithm indicates that my trades are going to constitute 10% of market volume. Okay, so in this example, I'm going to trade more shares in times of higher market volume and less shares in times of lower market volume. So if my POV rate is 10% every time 1000 shares trades, I need to trade 100 shares. When 10,000 shares trades, I need to trade 1000 so the POV rate gives me a nice way to keep. Up with volume. And finally, we have some traders who are using what's known as a price based slicing strategy. This is where traders may execute more or less aggressively based on market prices. So if I'm trying to achieve a certain market prices, I'm going to trade in different way if the price gets higher or lower. And finally, we have two other terms that's important for algorithms known as static and dynamic. So static algorithm is an algorithm that will not update, revise, change, or modify its strategy during the execution of an order. Once the parameters are specified, these parameters can only be changed by the trader or the investor by making a manual revision to the algorithm, by making a physical change to one of the algorithmic parameters. So once you decide how the algorithm is going to trade, you leave it. You let the algorithm do its thing. If you change your mind or you want to do something else, all you have to do is change that parameter in the algorithm and rerun it or update the executions a dynamic algorithm. On the other hand, now is an algorithm that is going to revise its trading strategies and parameters during execution of the order, and it's doing so based on the changing an actual real time market conditions. These revisions are often made based on specified based on a mathematical equation, maybe a real time optimization process, and just going to consider current market conditions, future expectations of our market conditions, and also the prices that it's realized. Okay, so we'll get into the difference between static and dynamic more in session two. Okay, so we'll leave right here. Let's take a 10 minute break, and when we get back, we're going to talk about different algorithms, and then we're going to get into the order book. But I know there were a lot of questions about the order book, so we're going to talk about the order book, order routing, what we can see and what we can't see. And if anyone has questions now that I skipped over or that haven't been answered or fully answered, please put them in queue now, and I'm happy to answer during our little break. Okay, otherwise, we'll return exactly 10 minutes from now. Okay, all right. Thanks. More.

Speaker 1  1:53:35  
Okay, welcome back everyone. Welcome back to this second part of session one. Okay, so we're going to talk about algorithms, order book and what we call fees and rebates. Any questions put in the queue. Again, I want to let some slides go, and I'll probably answer them in groups, or if there's a question so not able to hear me.

Speaker 1  1:54:18  
Okay, so someone else is having problems, and audio is fine. Thank you. Okay, good, good. I guess it's one person, so others can hear me. So if there's, if you can, it may be on your side. So thank you. Thank you. You know, again, put in the questions. I will answer them. I may answer them in groups. If I'm going to get to them a couple of slides. I'll let them go. If it starts to be a little off track from the presentation. I'm happy to answer all those questions. But at the end, okay, at the end of the class, okay, do.

Speaker 1  1:55:08  
So let's talk about the different types of algorithms, and these are more common algorithms in industry. So we have V wop and twap algorithms, what? And I'm going to give a quick description, then I'm going to show what these algorithms look like graphically to really illustrate how orders are traded. So V, wop stands for volume weighted average price. T wop is a time weighted average price. So these are time slicing algorithms. POV is percentage of volume. It's algorithms that participate with a certain percentage of market volume. We have price based algorithms. These algorithms are going to execute based on a certain specified market price. Some of the algorithms could be front loaded or back loaded. We have liquidity seeking algorithms, optimal trading strategy algorithms like those that solve the traders dilemma. And we also have portfolio algorithms, algorithms that are going to execute an entire basket. Okay, so what is the breakdown of these algorithms? Well, the breakdown is that V wop is doing about 30% percentage of volume, about 25 26% and the liquidity seeking algorithms about 25% these are the biggest usage of usages of algorithms. We have our price based algorithms portfolio and the other 3% these are very customized algorithms. Some brokers develop very customized algorithms for their services, or for particular clients. So what is a V wop algorithm? So V wop stands for volume weighted average price. It's just a weighted average in the market, a volume weighted average. So a V wop algorithm mimics the intraday trading patterns of the stock. So stocks typically trade more shares at the open and close less midday. We often refer to the V wop curve as a U shaped curve, okay, more at the open, less at midday, and then volume ramps up at the close again. So a V wop algorithm is going to slice the order following the day's historical intraday trading patterns. Okay, a twp algorithm, a twap algorithm, is time weighted average price, and this is an algorithm that just slices the order in equal parts throughout the day, okay, such as what we're seeing right here. Mathematician, a statistician, will refer to the twap curve as a uniform distribution just an equal number of shares at different points of time regardless of the market volume. Okay, so let's look at a POV algorithm. So POV, POV algorithm, also known as percentage of volume algorithm, is an algorithm that follows a certain percentage of market volume. So I mentioned, for example, 10% POV rate indicates the algorithm will participate with 10% of the market volume. So whenever 1000 shares transacts in the market, the investor needs to have traded 100 shares. When, if 10,000 shares executed in the market, the investor needs to have executed 1000 shares. So depending on your POV rate, you will complete the order sooner or later. So the POV rate, if I'm 20% if I have an order, I may finish midday. If I'm 15% a little slower, I'm going to trade over a longer period of time. And if I set that POV rate to 10% I will trade over a full day, a longer period of time. And the POV algorithms are also following the intraday volume profile, we have algorithms known as front load and back load. So front load algorithm is an algorithm that's going to start off by trading more shares, and then we'll trade fewer and fewer shares until that order is completed. Okay? Me. So it starts off aggressive trading the most shares, and then it'll start trading fewer and fewer shares in subsequent periods, mostly to keep from exerting that incremental, that next marginal market impact cost. Okay, a back load algorithm is the opposite. A back load algorithm starts slower and then ramps up. Trading. Back load algorithm is an algorithm that's typically used by firms who want to capture the closing price on the day, and these investors, when they're trying to capture the closing price, will have an order that's too large to execute in a closing auction, because it's going to exert too much price impact. Think of my 100,000 share order. If I enter that into a closing auction, a closing mechanism, it's going to have substantial price impact. I'm going to push that price way up. Okay, I know this. Market participants know this. And what I will do is I will start trading a little earlier in the day, and I'll slowly ramp up my trading into the close. So I'm exerting some price impact, but not all of the price impact at one point in time. Okay, if we look at like a price based algorithm, most common is an arrival price an arrival price algorithm is an algorithm that's going to trade a specified rate at different price points. So let's say I'm buying and the price is $30 I want to capture $30 so $30 I may be trading at a rate of 15% as the price goes down, I now have better prices. So I want to lock in that better performance. So I'm going to trade faster when the price drops to 2990 2980 2970 and I may have a maximum trading rate that is, say 25% so here I start at 15. I'll go up to 25% if I have favorable prices. Now, what happens if the price starts going up? Well, if the price starts going up, I want to slow down. I'm hoping to get some price reversion. I'm going to wait to see if the price comes back in my favor, and I want to make sure that it's not me causing the price to increase and stay at a higher price. I price. Some parties may and different investors use these different ways for buy order, sell order. Some investors have a different view. So if they feel the stock is a momentum stock, meaning once it starts, once the price starts increasing, it's going to continue to increase. So here's an example again, where I start trading at 30 where my price is $30 I'm trading with the POV rate of 15% as the price starts going up. Now I'm going to trade quicker, because I think it's going to keep going up, and I want to eliminate what could be some really high prices in the afternoon. Okay, so liquidity seeking algorithms are interesting. A liquidity seeking algorithm is an algorithm that's going to trade utilizing all venues and the instructions are pretty simple. Say, get me as many shares as possible at my price or better, sort of like a market limit order, just to go out to all the venues and get as many shares as we can. But the liquidy seeking algorithms will do in a very intelligent manner. They'll do it in a way to not disrupt market prices or really change the market quote. So let's say the market quote is $30 to $30.10 I'm buying and I'm happy with $30.10 so I want to get as many shares in the market as I can at $30.10 or better, then maybe 10,000 shares in the market at $30.10 at a point in time. So I'm going to go out and trade as many shares as possible, but I'm not going to take all the shares at $30.10 because I don't want the market to see the quote changing. Okay, so I'm doing this. I'm trying to do this in as an intelligent manner as possible. I want to get as many shares at my price, but I don't want to change the market quote, so I'll buy. All the shares leave some shares at 3010 and I'll wait to see if new orders come into the market. Maybe some orders replenish.

Speaker 1  2:05:12  
Okay, so here is example of what a liquidity seeking algorithm could look like, and notice that the percentage of the order traded, it does bounce around. And it bounced around some high, some very low, and this is just based on the available liquidity. Some periods of time we don't have liquidity at your price, so in that case, we're not going to get any trades done. Okay? So here's a example of where we are finding liquidity finishing the order. Here's an example where, you know what, a little less liquidity. So I'm trading over a longer period of time, but it's doing so in a very intelligent manner. Now, we have our optimal trading strategies. So here's an example of an optimal trading strategy. This is what we saw, where we balance a trade off between market impact and timing risk. Notice here that optimal trade time is about point eight, five trading days. But as part of this point, eight, five trading days. As part of that solution, it's also telling us exactly how many shares I should trade at different points in time. Okay, different shares trading different points in time. So I'm very happy with this strategy because it optimizes, gives me an optimal solution. Okay, we have our dynamic algorithm. So has dynamic algorithm work? So a dynamic algorithm may be trading at 10% for a while, then automatically adjust to market conditions. It may jump up to 20% and then it may decrease down to 5% remember the change in the trading rate. The POV rate is being made by the algorithm. It could also the dynamic algorithm. Could be some type of front loading mechanism where I start by trading with at a higher rate, decreasing until a point when the algorithm makes a change, increases again and then increases again and starts tapering off. So the dynamic algorithm to change to these parameters and to these strategies, which we call schedules, is being made by the algorithm itself. And a lot of times, the algorithm is looking for certain market signals, or there's some market trigger that causes the algorithm to make a change to a primer, and some dynamic algorithms are continuously making changes to the parameters. Okay.

Speaker 1  2:08:16  
Okay. Now, how do brokers execute orders for us? How do brokers get paid? So there are two types of execution. There are two execution types for brokers. So can we have examples of dynamic and liquid algorithms? So it's just that this is an example of a dynamic algorithm, an algorithm that's going to behave just like this. It's a POV rate, and that POV parameter that 10% changes to 20% so something happens in the market changes to 20% something happens in the market again, it revises and goes down to 5% an algorithm such as the bottom I may be running an optimization initially to solve the traders dilemma, like I did right here. So it's given me this blue strategy. Something happens in the market, and I resolve the optimization, resulting in another strategy, something in the market, some market events triggered, and I re optimize and get another strategy. Dynamic algorithm is, as I explained it, my instructions may be, buy all shares at $30.10 or better. So 930 I'm able to complete 15% my order. Of course, there's a lot of liquidity at 10 o'clock, less market liquidity, so I'm going to trade less. So think about the liquidity seeking algorithm. Items as a market limit order. And the algorithm is going not placing an order in a venue, but it's going out to all market venues and executing the order, okay? And it's doing some so an intelligent manner, so it's not going to take all the liquidity at your price, because if it took all the liquidity your price, that would result in a new bid office spread. So the liquidity seeking algorithms tries does its best to not change the market quote the market prices. Okay, so brokers will execute on behalf of the client two different ways, an agency execution. So this is where the investor pays the broker a commission execute an order. The broker executes the order on what's known as the best efforts basis. The broker is going to do their best to get the best market prices for their client, for their investor. Now, from the client's perspective, the execution prices are unknown in advance. I don't know what prices I'm going to get. Me as the investor, I'm incurring all market risk, so if I'm buying and a price increases, I'm going to pay a higher price. If the prices decrease, I'm going to buy at a lower price. Okay, and vice versa for sell orders. So as the investor, I don't know what the price is going to be in advance, and I have all market risk now in this type of agency transaction, I pay the broker a commission for their service in transacting, the order for me, and commissions can be between, say, one and three cents per share. Now we have another type this is known as a principal bid capital commitment. So principal bid, capital commitment, the investor pays the broker a premium. I'm paying the broker a higher premium to execute the order for me. And this is also often known as a block bid, principal bid, risk bid, okay, and in this situation, the broker gives me a guaranteed price, so I know what the price is. The price can be the current price. Let's say the price is $30 the broker guarantees me $30 um, it could be the closing price, and the broker guarantees the closing price. Well, maybe it's the average price over the day. Maybe I just sell a broker, hey, I want the average price over the day, whatever the V wop is, and a V wop is a volume weighted average price, that's what I want my transaction price to be. So here, the broker guarantees that price for me. The broker charges me a higher commission. That commission could be, let's say, five to 25 cents per share. So I'm paying up for the guaranteed execution price. And also I don't have any market risk. All the risk is on the broker side. So if the broker, if we agree to the current price, $30 I get my 100,000 shares done to $30 the broker may charge me 25 cents a share to do this, but I know I just executed $30 the broker has all of the risks. So if the price goes up to 3010, 3025, 3050, I'm safe, the broker incurs a higher price. But if the market goes down, the broker gets a much lower price. Okay, so let's look at a couple of examples here for agency execution. So I want to buy my 100,000 shares with an agency execution. The current price is $30 so the market impact cost, the market impact of this order is 10 cents. The timing risk is 20 cents, and the commission is two cents per share. Okay, so I want to show that these items right here, market impact and timing risk. This does not come from a fee schedule. The brokers don't say, Hey, I'm charging you 10 cents. Market impact, 20 cents and timing risk. This is coming from our models, our algorithmic trading models, and this is the focus of Session Two in a couple of weeks. I'm going to show you how we could estimate, how we could calculate the market impact and timing risk. So in this example, we're just going to go with this is the actual amount. Okay, so in this situation, my all in price is the investor is $30 which is the current price plus market impact of 10. Cents, plus my commission two cents. So I'm paying $30.12 my expected price is $30.12 it's currently $30 but I'm expecting it's going to cost me $30.12 now we also have the timing risk, the uncertainty, 20 cents. So I could say my expected price is really 3012 plus or minus 20 cents. Okay. Now I could illustrate this cost with our normal distribution. We call this a trade cost distribution. The mean is 3012 we see the possibility of getting some really high costs, 3030, 3040, even, 3060, 3070 but it also shows me the possibility I'm going to get a lower price right here, say, 2060, 2070 okay. Now the cumulative distribution cost graph is just our cumulative distribution function from statistics of a normal curve. And what the curve does is it gives us the probability that I'm going to transact at the x value or better. So a 3012 I look at 3012 we have a probability of 50% so this means there's a 50% chance I'll get a higher price. 50% chance I'll get a lower price. Okay, so it gives me that insane. That's exactly what we expect here with the trade cost distribution. But let's say we go back to my principal bid, and the broker is charging me 25 cents a share. Well, if I do it on my own, my all in price is 3012 which is much lower than 3025 but I'm do have the 20 cents in risk, so I could use this cumulative distribution graph to help me determine the probability that my agency execution will be better than the principal bid. So the principal bid of 25 cents commission results in a 25 cents charge. So if I come up to the curve here, I see that I have, wow, I have about a 70% chance doing better with an agency execution than a principal bid. So what should I do? Well, most people say on a service, hey, most people say on a surface, hey, 70% in your favor. You should do the agency execution, because you went 70% of the time, not yes, so you're much better off. I say, Hmm, that makes sense, but that may not be the answer.

Speaker 1  2:18:03  
And I say it may not be the answer, because we may run into a situation. Well, let's say I only do one trade a year, or one trade a month, so if I lose this month, remember, I have a 70% chance doing better. I have a 30% chance doing worse. So if I'm only going to do this trade once a year, I may not like 70% that may not be high enough, because there's a 30% chance I'll do worse. Same thing monthly. So monthly, if I you'll lose out. I have to wait another month to make up for my losses. If I do it once a year, I have to wait an entire year to do better. But what if i What if I'm transacting on a daily basis? So if I'm transacting on a daily basis, if I don't do better today, I have the chance tomorrow or the next day and the next day. So that's a situation where I'm probably going to do an agency execution because 70% is in my favor. Whereas if I'm trading once a year, once a month, I may not do it, because it's not the probability is not high enough. So when we make our investment decision or execution style decision, I'm also incorporating the frequency of my trading. How often do I trade? And that's very important. So I could see I need to for me to determine exactly how I trade, I need to incorporate my investment objective. Why am I trading? But also the frequency. How often do I trade? Okay, let's get into the market order book. Now we spent a little time talking about the market order book. I'm. When we talked about venues, exchanges, ATSs and dog pools, so all displayed market venues, and this is exchanges and ATS is, well, I should say all venues maintain an order book. Dark pools maintain an order book. They don't show the information exchanges ATS is maintain an order book, and they do disseminate this information to investors. Now these venues may charge you to get access to these this information. They may charge you a lot to get access to the order book, but you can, and it's one of the items that makes the cost of high frequency trading many times prohibitive. Okay, okay, is there a formula find out how much to trade, when to trade, or just use the straight strategies that were discussed all have different time and quantity. So great question. So we do have formulas to tell us, and that's the focus of session two, so we still need a little more in the background before we could jump into those strategies. But in session two is where we're going to get into the math. I'm going to show you how you derive the equations, and I'm going to show you how we can I'm going to show you all the tricks that brokers use that they don't want you to know about. Okay, so you're right. We do have formulas. We have functions. I'm going to show you everyone how we could incorporate these strategies, how we can incorporate these objectives to determine that proper execution strategy for us?

Speaker 1  2:22:02  
Okay, so let's talk about order types. And so these are some very general order types. So we have market order, so it's in order to immediately buy a sell stocks at the best available price. We have a limit order. A limit order is in order to buy a sell stock at the specified price or better, we have a bid price. A bid price is a buy order. This is a price that investor wishes to pay for stock, so the buyer is bidding a certain number of shares to buy. An ask price. I should say it's a bid limit, and ask limit. And ask price is a sell order. This is the price that the investor wishes to sell at. I want to sell at that price or higher. We have what's known as the bid ask spread. This is the difference between the best bid and best ask in the market. The bid ask spread represents the total cost of trading, if the investor were to simultaneously buy and sell shares in the same stock immediately, we also now have our order book. What is it? Order book? So the order book is a collection of all bids and asks at a trade venue.

Speaker 1  2:23:26  
So here's an example of an order book. So we have the collection of buy orders here on the left hand side, these are our bids. We have the collection of all sell orders on the right hand side. These are all the ask prices. So we have the bid ask spread. So first orders are sorted from for bids, from the highest price to the lowest price, and orders assorted for sales, from the lowest price to the highest price, okay? And the reason is, if these are all the buy orders, and I'm a seller, who would I sell to first, would I sell to someone who's willing to pay $30 or 2990 or 2980 Well, as a seller, as long as I'm a rational investor and I want to get the best prices, I'm going to sell to the those parties who are willing to pay the most money for me. Okay, now, if I want to buy, who am I going to buy from 3010, 3015, or 3020, so a rational investor is going to buy from the lowest seller of shares. Okay, now there's something else I want to mention with the order book. So we have what's known as the queue, and this is the total sequencing of trades. Now, most order books are going to seek sequence the trades based on. What we call price time priority. So it's going to be all the price from the highest to lowest price based on time. Okay, so the order that was entered at 10 o'clock will be executed before the order of 1005, before the order of 1015, then the 2990, order would get executed, the one that was entered at 10 before the 1020 and so on. And same thing for the sell orders. It's sorted by price and time. So you get the price time priority orders at the same price, the orders that were entered into the system earliest execute first. Now this is not always the case. Some venues have what we call my show it here, but have what's called a price, size, priority. Some venues want to preference orders that have a higher quantity, so the orders that have more shares would be executed first. So when you're using a venue, when you're entering an order into the order book, always make sure you understand the queuing and the sequencing is a price time priority, or price size priority. The vast majority of order books use price time priorities. So that's what we're going to talk about. Okay, so in a single venue market, the bid ask spread is the highest bid price and the lowest ask price. So here it's easy to see the bid ask spread is 30 to 3010 now with the bid ask spread, we often give the cumulative volume at each price. So it's not just the shares at that first order, but it's the cumulative shares, the total shares at $30 so here we have 800 shares, 100 500 200 800 shares at $30.03 100 shares at 3010 because when I'm viewing this information from my when my algorithm is collecting this Information, what's important for the algorithm the price 30 or 3010 depending if I'm buying or selling, and the cumulative volume, not just the volume of the first order. If I want to buy, I'm sorry if I want to buy 200 shares, or if I want to buy 1000 shares, I could see that I could buy 300 or 3010 not 100 but 300 Okay, so providing the shares along with the price is really helpful for us to make a trading decision. Okay? Sometimes it may be easy. If we look at the order book this way, just the bid prices on the bottom. This is what all buyers are willing to buy at. And we put the sell orders on the top so we have the best ask price is the lowest sell order, and the best bid price is the highest bid price. The spread is the difference. So the sell orders, again, is a collection of all sell limit orders, and the buy order book is a collection of all buy orders. So all we're doing it was, is we're showing this information in a different manner. Okay, let's look at this now. How would I execute? So is there a gap between bid ask and how do trades happen? Okay, so under great question, I show how a trade happens now. So right here, if this is the only information, no trades would happen because none of the sellers are willing to trade with the buyers they want to sell at a much higher price, 30 1015, and 3020, and none of the buyers are willing to go up to 3010 the buyers want to buy a 3029, 9029. 80. So if this is the information, no trades will occur here unless one of the parties changes their price. Okay? So some may need to trade at the end of the day. So they may raise buyers may raise their price, sellers may lower their price, but it's up to these parties. Let's look at an example. Now let's say a new investor comes into the market. So here's a party, here's an investor. It's 1030 and she has 100 shares to buy. So 10 Cent gap is not going to be filled by market makers.

Unknown Speaker  2:29:58  
So there's a. So this gap is just that there's no

Speaker 1  2:30:06  
that no trades going to occur, that we can't agree on the price, so none of these trades are going to occur. Okay? So no trades are going to occur in this situation, unless one of the parties wants to change their price number one, or if another investor comes into the market, this investor could be an investor. It could be a market maker. Let's just say it's some participant. Okay, so we have a new participant entering the market, and she wants to buy 100 shares. How can she buy 100 shares? She has two options. She can buy 100 shares immediately at $30.10 using a market order. Remember, a market order gives you guaranteed execution at the best available price. So my market order will buy 100 shares at $30.10 and it's going to buy this order right here that shaded. So that's great, that trade will get done. But what if the investor, she says, Hmm, you know, $30.10 that's too high. I don't want to pay $30.10 I want to pay $30 okay, so in that case, the investor enters a buy order, a buy limit order, into the order book, and that gets entered at the bottom of the queue. So a new order is entered at 1030, 100 shares for $30 now this investor will execute, will buy a $30 as long as there are sellers willing to pay. Sell down to $30 a limit order is not guaranteed. It may not execute. It won't execute unless other parties are willing to sell at 30 the only guaranteed of execution is if the investor is willing to buy $30.10 okay. Now additionally, this buyer will not have her order executed until the three orders above her are executed first. So remember, it's price time priority. There were three other orders entered into the system before her order was entered. So there are three orders, but there's cumulative 800 shares. So she has to wait for 800 shares to execute at $30 before her order will be executed. How about a sell order? A participant comes into the market, participants willing looking to sell 100 shares. Now she also has two options, but it's from the other direction, she can sell with a market order. A market order is in order to immediately sell shares at the best available price. So if I'm selling, I will sell to the buy orders. So I'm looking at the bids. They're so unwilling to pay $30 for my shares so I could sell immediately at $30 okay? But if I say, know what $30 is too low, I don't want to sell $30 I want to sell shares at $30.10 Well, there's no party who's willing to pay, I'm sorry, right? There's no party willing to pay $30.10 right now. So I will enter my order into the order book. Okay, my order is entered into the order book. It's still price, time, priority. So there were two orders ahead of me, order that was entered at 10 and 1005, so the two orders ahead of me, but 300 shares ahead of me. So I need to wait for these 300 shares to be executed before my order is executed. Similar to the buy order, when I enter a limit order, it's not guaranteed execution. The only guaranteed execution is the sell market order. Okay, let's look at the multi multiple venues now. Okay, so here's an example of three venues. I'm just going to call venue A, B and C. They're displayed markets so they can be exchanges or ATSs every venue maintains its own order book. Here's the order book for venue a, order book for venue B, then order book for venue C. Each venue has its own bid ask spread. So the bid ask spread for venue A is 30 to 3010 this is one we looked at. There's 800 shares of 3300, shares of 3010 venue. B has a different bid, ask spread. It's always the bid price and ask price. So it's 32 3002 to 3015 the best bid is 3002 the best sellers 3015 there are 200 shares at 3002 and 600 shares at 3015 so multiple venues. It could be exchanges, it could be ATSs, it's displayed markets, so you could think about it as exchanges, but I'm using the term trading venue to be a little more general, so it can include ATSs, and finally, venue C has its own order book. Its best quote, its best bid is 2990 its best offer is 3006 there are 1600 shares at its best bid. So the quote is 2990 times 1600 shares, and the best ask is 3006, 100 shares. So yes, you could buy in one venue and sell in another. That's not a problem at all. And in fact, there are parties out there who are looking for, and this is known as exchange arbitrage. They're looking for the possibility that they could buy on one exchange and then immediately sell on another exchange at a higher price. So academic theory tells us that will never happen. It does happen, not that often at all, but it could happen. So that could be a bid price on one exchange that's higher than the ask price on another exchange. So I could buy at a lower price and sell at a higher price. And this is done through algos. So we have the three categories of algos execution only, quant and high frequency trading. This would be an example of a quant trading algorithm that's looking for this type of exchange arbitrage. You could just think about that. It's not going to happen that often, but if I write an algorithm that's observing all market prices on all venues for all stocks. It can be done. And as soon as there's a an opportunity to make money, I could execute that algorithm. Okay, the limitation is it could be that I'm expecting to make money I execute with the market order, but those better prices disappeared before I'm able to route and execute my order. So the reason it disappears is somebody may have beaten me to those better prices. So algorithm, big part of algorithmic trading is the speed of execution. How quick do I get the information? How quick can I calculate and process that information? Then how quick can I execute that opportunity? Okay, so now let's look at the, what we call the nbbo, the national best bid and offer. The national best bid and offer takes the best bid and the best offer across all venues. So the best bid is the highest of the bids, so 30 3002 and 29 so the best bid is 3002 and we have 200 shares. And the best ask is 3006 so it's the lowest, I'm sorry, the lowest of 3010 3015 and 3006 and we have 100 shares. So when we look at the nbbo, it's often few shares, 200 100 because it's coming from across many different venues, not always, but it's very often fewer shares than the best bid and offer At each venue. Now we talked about dark pools earlier. So what price do dark pools execute at? So a dark pool would execute at the midpoint of the N, B, B, O. So in this case, any executions in a dark pool will occur 3004 $30.04 the midpoint of the bid of the N, B, B, O, okay, so this ensures that dog pools are always giving fair and proper prices. Okay, so venue A is a bit of $30 venue B, 3002 Why is a?

Speaker 1  2:40:00  
Um be the best bid. So remember, the best bid is all buy orders. Okay, so we have the best bid of $30 3002 and 2990 so we have someone willing to buy at 30 someone else will buy 3002 someone else is willing to buy a 2990 so if you're selling stock, who would you sell to? Would you sell it at 30 3002 or 2990 if you're selling you would sell it to the highest bid. That's how you're going to get the most money. Okay, right? So you would sell it at 3002 so that's why the 3002 is bolded in blue, and this is the best price. Okay, so if we have real time nbbo, we'd be able to estimate the dog pool price. So yes, and dog pools are. Someone answered this two ways. So we won with trading. We always have the NBB, oh, even if you look at quotes like Bloomberg, Yahoo Finance, if we look at quotes on like S, P, capital, IQ, of facts at any other of our venues. The nbbo is always across all market venues, okay? So it always gives us the best bid and offer. So this is the price that dark pools will execute at the midpoint. So we in effect, know the price that would transact in the dark pool here, it's 3002 I'm sorry, 3004 but we don't know what prices investors in the dog pool are willing to trade at some investors in a dog pool may only be willing to buy $30 some sellers may only be willing to sell down to 3010 so in that case, no transaction will occur in the dark pool, no match will occur in a dog pool. Okay, so we know what price shares would trade at, but we don't know the prices that investors are willing to transact that. Okay. Now let's look at some smart order routing. Okay, so a couple more things we'll do, and then we'll be set, you know, for session two. So let's take a look at this market order. So we have three venues, venue a, venue B, and venue C, okay. So and this is the, this is the market order book, okay, so it's the market let me do this a smart order routing, and just so we see it's a buy order. Okay, so if I want to buy 100 shares at $30 here's the order book. Venue, A, this is all the buy orders. Venue, be all the buy orders. Venue, see all the buy orders. So if I want to buy 100 shares at $30 where should I enter my order, venue a, venue B, venue C, okay. Well, with price time priority, if I enter it in venue a, I'm going to be the eighth order, and I'm going to have to wait for 2600 shares to execute before me, because they have priority. If I enter my order in venue B, I'm the fourth order, and I have to wait for 800 shares to execute before me, because 800 shares has priority, 100 shares from the first order, 500 from the second, 200 from the third. And finally, if I enter my order and venue C for $30 I have to wait for 1400 shares to execute before me. So I'm the sixth order, and I have to wait for 1400 shares to be executed before my order would be executed. So where should I enter my order? So on the surface, if this is all the information we have, you're absolutely right. I want to enter the order in venue B, because it has the shortest Q, the shortest weight. And a lot of times we could think about this as like a grocery store. So I bought my groceries. And now I'm picking what cashier do I want? I have three cashiers. Which one do I want? Okay, well, I could look at just the number of people online. That's one way to do it. But another way is I may look at the how big are the shopping carts in front of the people? Because the bigger the shopping carts, the longer it's going to take to check them out, the longer my wait is going to be. Okay. So realistic. Yes, we do get this information. We have access to this information, and this is the only way we can make a order routing decision. We need this information, okay? And the displayed venues, exchanges and ATSs do provide this information for us. Okay? They may charge for this. And a lot of venues charge a lot of money. It's why it's um, it's the biggest barrier to entry, unless you team up, unless you join a company, and the company's buying access to this information and then distributing it to all their traders. Okay, so I mentioned on the surface, and a couple of people mentioned venue B, right? I want to enter it in venue B. So I'd be the fourth order, and I'd enter it in venue B because there were only 800 shares ahead of me. Okay, so I'm always looking at this. I want the shortest line. I want the least people ahead of me. Okay, so this makes sense, right? Well, almost think about a shopping center now grocery store. So you find that shortest line, you wait online, and then you look it up at the cashier, and you see me smiling at you. I'm the cashier for the line you're on. And what do you say? She is not robbed. He always gets things wrong. People complain. He has to call the manager over. Manager is going to have to void an order. They have to cancel it. Then he ring it, and he charges the wrong money. And then it always takes much longer. So when you look at me, so you know what, even though this is the shortest line, I'm better off going on to one of the other lines. Of course, it'll be quicker. Even though the lines are longer, the grocery carts could have more items in it. It still may be quicker for you to go to another line than mine. Okay, so if we look at this and in trading, we do the same exact analysis. So again, it's the same order book, and let's look at the next level of information. So what if venue a trades 10 times more shares than venue B and venue C. So it's 10 times as quick, if it's 10 times as quick, now I'm better off going to venue a, even though it's the longest line with the most shares ahead of me. I'm better off entering my order in venue A, right, exactly right, because venue A is going to give me the highest likelihood of completing my order within a certain amount of time. Okay, and that's what I want to do. I buy my groceries. I want to have dinner. I don't want to wait online. I want to get out as quick as possible. Same thing with trading, when I enter my order, I want my order to be executed fastest possible. Okay, so not only are we looking at the data in all of these venues, looking at what we call depth of book. Okay, and I'm looking at the frequency of trading, how much of volume is trading at each venue, okay, so that's something I need to be monitoring in real time. How do I know that venue A is trading 10 times more than B and C? Because I'm monitoring it. I'm monitoring how much volume is executing in venue a, venue B and venue C. I can't get that information from just looking at the order book alone.

Speaker 1  2:49:34  
Okay, the last thing we're going to finish up with now is, how does a trade venue make money? How does a trade venue get paid? How does venue, a being See, get paid? We know how the broker gets paid, either, either an agency execution, you're an agency Commission or the principal bid. Okay, but how. Does a venue get paid? Okay, so the venue gets paid. There are three types of revenue models. One is what we call a commission based model. So commission based models where both parties pay a fee for transacting in the venue. So this is a common revenue model with dog pools. So the dog pools typically charge both parties a fee, the buyer and the seller, both parties who enter orders into the dog pool are charged a fee if an execution occurs. Now we have something called the make or taker model. So a make or take a model is where the investor posting liquidity receives a rebate. Okay? So when we say posting an order, we mean entering an order with a limit order. So if I enter a limit order into a venue, either a buy limit order or a sell limit order, I'm adding liquidity to the market. Okay? So if I'm adding liquidity to that venue and the trade occurs, I'm going to receive a rebate from that venue. Now, the party who transacts with me is charged a fee. So again, if I enter an order, if I enter a limit order into a venue, I'm charged a fee. The party who transacts with me uses a market order, and they are charged a fee. So how does the venue make money here? So they may charge so first, let's go back to the commission based for dog pools. They may charge both parties five mils. And it's typically in the US, a mill is a 100th of a penny. So may, may charge five mil let's say 10 mils. I want to keep numbers nice and round, 10 mils to transact. So if an execution occurs in a dog pool, the buyer pays 10 mils, the seller pays 10 mils, so the venue makes 20 mils. Now let's look at the make or take a model, so they may be charging the party who uses a market order, let's say 30 mils, and they may be giving a 10 mil rebate. So if I enter an order here, not only will I buy it to bid or sell the Ask the higher price, but I'm also going to collect be given a rebate. That's great for me. Okay, so the seller who uses, I'm sorry not to sell it, but the party uses the market order, pays a 30 mil fee to the venue. The venue gives me 10 mils. So I make 10, and the venue collects 20 mils. They collect the difference. Finally, we have something called the inverted make or take a model. So this is the opposite. This is where the investor posting liquidity is charged a fee and the investor taking liquidity is charged a fee. So the investor posting liquidity, I should say this limit order, is charged a fee, and investor taking liquidity market order receives a rebate. The complete opposite of the maker taker rebates of the investor posting liquidity is

Speaker 1  2:53:52  
just so we can really see what this is, okay. So the question comes up is, why would somebody post liquidity on an inverted venue? Because they don't be charged a fee when they could come to the maker taker and receive a rebate. Well, you could think about this as like an amusement park. Um, some amusement parks in the US. Disney World has what we call Fast Pass where you could cut the line. So I think the amusement park maybe gives you two fast passes a day, where you could cut to line, go to the front of the line. But if you want more than that, you have to pay so you could pay money and actually cut the line, so an inverted make or taker venue is where I'm paying a fee to cut the line so I don't have to wait in queue until people behind me finish. I don't have to wait for the people behind me to have to. Um, have their order executed. I pay a fee and I go to the top of the line so I get priority. Okay, so sometimes it's better to pay a fee then have to raise your price or have to wait for all the shares to execute so an inverted make or take, it's not, wouldn't say promoting market orders, because you need the limit orders and the market orders, the market order will always transact with the limit order, or a limit order that just has a lower price or higher price. So I wouldn't say I know what you think and you're right. So I'll say you're right on the money with your thinking. That's exactly right. But just the terminology is a little off. Okay, so it's promoting so, so, so let me rephrase that, so yes, I'm going to answer it yes, because it's the next market order is going to come to that venue. Because now, if I want to transact with a market order, would I want to go to a maker, taker, venue where I have to pay, or I want to go to the inverted where I received the rebate. So yes, I want to go to the inverted with the market order and receive the rebate. So yes, you're right on the money. They just don't call it promoting market orders. But like I said, Yes, Your thinking is right on the money, and that's a great way to think about it. So yes, you're absolutely right. Okay, so just to summarize what's happening, so maker, so us all commission both parties pay a fee. The maker taker, the party with a limit order, receives the rebate. The market order is known as the taker pays the fee, and the inverted is opposite, so the person who does the limit order pays a fee and the taker receives the rebate. Okay, the last things I'll show you is some type of research that is important for algorithmic trading. We talk about market microstructure research. Market microstructure research is another area of research that's important for the algorithmic trading space for broker dealers and market microstructural research focuses on the price discovery process. Okay, what's the fair value market price? How do we determine? How do I determine if I should raise my limit order or trade with a market order? It also has to do with the intraday profiles. What's the intraday volume? Okay, here's a picture of the intraday volume, intraday volatility, intraday spreads. Is there a day of week? Effect was, knowing as much about the liquidity conditions and intraday trading patterns as I can will help me trade better. You know, what days of the week have the most volume? How about month end? You know how to volumes change things like that. Okay, but I think I think I am went by this slide too quick. I want to make sure everyone understands this from the maker taker. So a maker is somebody who posts liquidity, somebody who enters a limit order on a venue. The taker is the party who's using a market order and taking an order away from the order book. Okay, I know this gets to be confusing. I want to make sure I explain this as well as possible. Okay, and turn it over to questions. So any questions now, this is so session one is done. The Session Two, I know there were questions about equations. How do we know what market impact is? Will we be shown how to determine the answer. So all of that is yes in the next session, the next session is going to focus on the specific models. How do we measure cost? How do we evaluate performance, and how do I make that best forward looking decision? Okay, well, intraday pattern will be studied across industries. Very good question. So intraday patterns? So this is a great question. I've done a lot of research, and I found that the intraday patterns we can do for the market as. A whole. And we actually just looked at it by market cap, by industry and individual stock. So if you compute intraday patterns at the stock level, that's not giving us any algorithmic performance better than I used then if I used a market curve, so and my market curve, my market data was always the large cap index. I use the S P, so I derive a intraday profile. I derive the patterns using all stocks in the s p5, 100, and I'd apply to all stocks. When we looked at the individual stock level, those curves, that data, did not do better than a very general market curve. I know a lot of brokers say they do. They say they do, because it's all about marketing. When I was at a broker said the same thing, but I want to say, don't trust what brokers tell you. You have money. Brokers want your money. Always test everything, verify what a broker is telling you. Okay, and next session, we're going to talk about how to verify what a broker is telling us. So let's say, I'll go through a rest of the question. So how will market adjust that limit order according to price price change? That's a very good question. So when we look at price changes, so I'm going to say, what if the price is moving? I'm all if there's no price change and I'm not getting my order and I need to transact it to stick with a certain POV rate, let's say 10% How would I go about staying with that 10% so I may raise my limit price, I may make my limit price a little higher. I may trade with the market order, or I may cancel my order and move to an inverted exchange. If I'm buying and I have a buy limit order and I see the sell limit orders disappearing, that may be a signal to me that the price is going up. I may immediate, I may immediately transact with the market order before the price really goes higher. If I see a lot of prices, I'm sorry if I see a lot of orders being added to the sell orders, a lot of asks being added in the market, I may say myself, hey, this may be a signal that the price is coming down. A lot of sellers. So in that case, I may not change my limit order, and I may even enter another limit order at a lower price. Okay, so it all depends on what the market prices are number one, but number two, I still need to maintain my I still need to maintain a certain POV rate, I still need to adhere to a schedule, so even if I have an evidence that the price is going to come down and I'm buying, I may need to stick to a certain rate. I may be falling behind. So I may need to transact with market orders, even though I know the price is moving in my favor. Okay, not always, but if that's

Speaker 1  3:03:28  
what the need is, I need to stick to that. And why would that be the need? Well, one is the investor tells me it is. But number two, I may need to transact buys and sells at the same rate to maintain my hedge, to maintain my risk. Okay, so as price volatility show a U shaped pattern, so let me show so price volatility used to show a U shaped pattern. Now it's small of a L shaped patterns. Volatility used to spike at the close, it's not spiking as much as it used to intraday. Volume used to show a very U shaped pattern. Now the volume at the close is much more pronounced. So we say volume is more of a J shaped curve. Volume volatility and spreads used to have U shape. Volatility is more of an L shape, volume is more of a J shape. So why isn't the intraday volatility spiking at the close? Well, it's not spiking it, and I should say, This Is Us data. All markets have different data. It's not spiking at the close anymore, because, you know, several years ago, exchanges changed their closing price auction, where you used to have to have the closing orders entered by 340 for the auction, not for real time trading if you missed the 340 deadline. Um. Um, you couldn't enter any more orders. Now they have a mechanism that you can enter an order into the closing auction up until four o'clock, as long as you are offsetting a market imbalance. So for what causes volatility? Well, it's the imbalance between buy and sell orders. If you keep offsetting an imbalance into the close, there's less and less volatility. Okay, so what's the criteria to qualify to be a maker and receive rebates? You just need to enter an order into a venue that has the maker, taker, revenue model, that's the only criteria that you need to enter a limit order to that venue. You have to be careful with what broker you're using. Some brokers will keep the rebates themselves, but they may say the rebates and the fees are part of that commission structure, and they keep whatever rebates they get, and they say they pay whatever the fees they have to. It's up to you as the investor to tell the broker, no. You want that unbundled. You want to receive all the rebates, and in turn, you have to pay all the fees, so it's up to you, but um, and a lot, a lot of traders do this that they don't want the broker collecting the rebates. They want to be able to collect those rebates. So I'm not sure a large cap is small cap. What that means? Oh, maybe LC and small key is that referred. I'm not sure if what that refers. Oh, right here. Sorry, the great. So LC is large cap, SC is small cap, so it shows slightly different curves, so large and small cap. Okay, in US market, we can enter positions in regular market time and exit and post market you can, you can enter during the market day and then sell exit after hours. Yes, that's done a little bit. I'm and, you know, there's not much after hours traded. There's not much after hours trading at all. I know they talk about it on the news, but the only time there's a lot of after hours trading or pre hours trading, is when there's news on a stock, and that's usually only a few stocks, and these are the ones that we that's talked about in the press, in all the financial social media channels, okay, we'll see it around company earnings at times, if there's something hot on Reddit, yes, but it's usually Only those stocks. Okay, so what is the large cap and small cap intraday trading patterns? So this is showing us what percentage of the day's volume trades at different periods of time, intraday volume, the intraday volatility. Just looks at what's the volatility in each period? Volatility much more of the open and then it declines and the intraday spreads. Is the difference between the bid office spread for large cap, small cap, and the coefficient of variation. Well, this is just a measure of the volumes uncertainty, the volatility of volume divided by the average. Okay, so did Trump contribute to intraday volatility? I never looked at anything like that, so I can't answer. So dog pool trades can be executed as a slice. Yes, but you need to enter this each slice into the dog pool individually. The dog pool won't slice the order for you. Similarly, a venue is not going to slice an order for you. You need to slice the order on your end and submit those orders to the different venues you need to submit the slices.

Speaker 1  3:09:35  
So can we say the closing auction is always the best time of the day to trade? Um? So no, and the reason is, if you wait until the close to trade, it does have the most liquidity, yes, but you don't know what the prices are. You're waiting a full day, so you're incurring a full day's market risk. Risk to trade in the close. Number one. Number two, you can also trade during the day and get what we call favorable prices, so we don't have to wait to the close. Okay, there are reasons people wait till the close, and if, mostly if, that fund is being valued using the closing price. But other than that, we're not waiting to trade, and we'll see more next week. I'm buying stock because I want to buy the price now. I don't want to wait a day. I don't want to wait hours to trade, because that price may be much worse. So yes, you do trade dog pools through brokers, and most venues require you to trade through a broker. Very few venues allow investors or institutions to trade with them directly. And when they do, these investment firms usually have to have a very high capital amount, just in case they default. Venues are on the hook if you and I, if I sell stock to you, if it turns out that I don't have the shares, I can't deliver those stocks. I can't deliver those shares to you. So the venues on the hook, they're legally obligated to now go in the market, buy the shares and give it to you. So the venues won't want to do business with me, they'll want to do business with JP Morgan, because they know JP Morgan's not going to default. And if I default to JP Morgan, they know JP Morgan's going to make good on it, because JP Morgan is obligated. Okay, so I think that's it. That's all the questions I see. So thank you for a great session. So couple of weeks session two, this is where we're going to get into all the math, and we're also going to be doing Python programming. Okay, and I'm going to give all the Python code. So everything we talked about, all the math, all the optimization, you will receive Python code, okay, all right, everyone and have A very good rest of the day. Right. Bye. You. More.

