Speaker 1  0:02  
Hello everyone. Welcome to this class on IB Python API. This is Jay here, and I will be the presenter for today's class. Before we begin, can you guys please confirm if I'm audible? Loud and clear, just put yes or no on the

Unknown Speaker  0:22  
Q and A panel, and it shall be good. Hey, great.

Speaker 1  0:29  
I see many yes over here, perfect. And I hope you guys can also see my screen, the TPP part, right? Okay, great, thanks. Thanks everyone for confirmation. I welcome you all to this very first class on strategy automation using Interactive Brokers Python API, wherein we are going to learn a very vivid and very dynamic topic, which is how to automate a strategy. Right now, when it comes to strategy automation, there are, like many approaches, and today we are going to discuss one of them in the upcoming lectures we will see and explore and learn like, what are the various what are the approaches are, and how those approaches relate to what we discussed today. Okay, so in today's class, we would be starting our very new like, we would be starting a new topic with a fresh perspective on like, if you have a strategy with you, which you want to automate, or you want to automate some parts of it, how it, how it can be done using Interactive Brokers API, okay, so that is the goal of today's class. That is, after the end of this class, you should be able to trade in an algorithmic fashion using TWS API. Right now, in today's class, we are not going to cover how to deploy the automated strategy on a cloud instance. At the end we used to cover in the same class, but is the lecture evolved. The scope of this class expanded, and as a result, we divided into two different sessions, right? So in today's class, we are going to focus on only this part, which is like how to trade algorithmically using ibtws API and deploying it on a cloud instance. Would be a separate tutorial. So you guys will get an access to the tutorial later on, once you understand how this how to trade algorithmically, okay. And to achieve this goal, the lecture is divided mainly into two sections, the pre break session and the pre in the in the post Brexit session, in the pre break session, we are going to start with strategy workflow. Then we will move on to manual trading, or we will basically get ourselves comfortable with the desktop trading terminal provided by the Interactive Brokers, we will go through the API architecture and also understand how various components of the architecture interrelate with each other, and how do we Get the whole idea about that, how the API works, okay. And in the second half of the session, we will dive into the Python part, and we'll see, like whatever we have learned in the first half of this class, we will dive into Python code, and we'll see how to put it practically. Okay? So in the second part, we will go through various demonstrations of how to connect our program to TWS or to the broker, how to fetch historical data, how to place orders, how to fetch positions and what not. Okay, again, like for for a gender reminder, the cloud computing demonstration would want to be coding this class. It would be, it would be called in a separate tutorial, right? So this is the big idea about today's class that is, after the end of this session, you guys should have really good idea about what strategy automation looks like. How you can automate your strategy using Interactive Brokers API, and what are the various components of that API and how you can go ahead with it? Okay, so that's the bigger picture of what we are going to do today, right? So let me just see great. I. Ah, perfect. So let's begin by discussing the strategy, workflow. Okay, so in your epic journey until now, you guys have spent time learning and understanding until here, which is like the back testing part. So in the SFM classes, in the EFS classes, you guys spend significant time understanding about how to come up with a strategy idea, like what different strategy ideas look like. And if you have some strategy ideas, like how you can go ahead and, like, quantify them, right? So you you guys spend a considerable time validating even some of those ideas in the classes like PBQ and DMP, right? And in the PBQ and DMP classes, you guys, once you have the strategy ideas, you guys went ahead and quantified it, and once you quantified you validated those ideas against the historical data, and back tested it using multiple approaches that vector aspect testing or even driven back testing right now that you know how to if you have certain hypothesis, how you can quantify it, and once you quantify how you can validate it, let's say, based on whatever hypothesis that you have, you have validated that hypothesis, and you are okay, or you are happy with the outcome of that validation, okay. And you want to take a step further. And now we want to automate that whole idea, okay? And you want to go ahead, you want to connect to the broker and start putting that idea into the action. So in this class, we are going to focus entirely on that part, which is the automation part. Okay? That is like, how you can take your idea, how you can take your trading system and plug it, plug it in with the broker, and how you can perform those trading operations over there in an automated fashion. So this is where we currently are, and this is what, this is what we are going to focus on, okay, the automation part. Now, when I say automation, this automation usually consist of various trading operations, like connecting with the broker, fetching data from broker, or giving some kind of request to the broker, like placing orders Okay, or fetching order status, fetching live data or streaming live data and what not. So there are like bunch of trading operations that one could perform with the broker, and depending on the requirement or the system. Most of all, most of the trading operations could be automated right now. It also depends on, like, what kind of trading operations your broker supports. Okay, so that is what we are going to discuss and take a look at, like when it comes to automation right now, before we start and before, before we jump into like, how do we automate that aspect? We need to be aware, or at least we need to be cognizant, of how those trading operations are performed manually, right So, if you can perform those trading operations manually. Usually you would be in a better place, or you would be in a better position to automate them. Okay, so before we can automate them, it is crucial that you know how to perform those trading operations manually. So what we are going to do now is let's spend some time on understanding how to perform bare minimum, or the or the bare required trading operations manually. Okay? And to do that, we are going to use the official trading terminal provided by the interactive broker. So let me, let me, let me. Put in some terminology over here, when I say IB, I am referring to the interactive broker. It is a broker which supports markets from 35 geographies. That is like it's again, so most of us who come from different geographies, we all could relate to the same entity. So it's a broker, just like any other broker, it's a broker. The name is interactive broker right now, this broker provides multiple tools with which we can go ahead and which we can trade. Okay, one of the tools that this broker provides is AWS, okay, which stands for traders workstation.

Speaker 1  10:14  
Now it is a desktop application, okay? Or a trading terminal, whatever we say, like, they're both in one they are both one and the same. So AWS is a trader workstation or the or a trading terminal using which, like, which is a point and click application, which we can install on our machines. We can open it and we can trade whatever we want to trade. Okay, so we are going to spend some time understanding how it works, and then we will see how we can connect Python program to this terminal so that we could automate those operations. Right now, it is a cross platform application, which means that we could install it on literally any operating systems, and it it allows performing literally all the required operations by a trader. So I have that system installed on my machine over here. Okay, now let me just exit it and let me re login. So now see for today's class. Okay, if you want to replicate what I do, you guys need to have certain software applications installed and configured on your machine. Now, in case, if you guys haven't done so, I would request everyone to do so after the class, okay, we have provided a detailed installation document, which you should be able to find on your LMS. Go through the document and config, install and configure after the class, and please don't try to install it during the class. Else you would be able to lose on both sides, you guys won't be able to focus on what we are doing over here as well as you guys want to be able to install it. Install those applications properly, because those applications are not easy, or those are not straightforward, in a sense, to install. Okay, so please be cognizant of this part that try to install it after the class and not during the class. I won't be able to help you out if you face any issues while installation or anything else or while configuring. Okay, so I will be opening the trader workstation over here. I am using version 10 point 30, which is the offline version. Okay, so once it loads, it will ask me to enter my credentials. Okay. Now over here, for those of you who don't have an account with Interactive Brokers, they can click on this, this link over here, try the demo link, okay. Once you click on that link, try the demo link, it will ask you to enter your email ID, and once you enter your email ID, it will allow you to access the trading terminal. Okay, it will allow you to access your trading terminal. Now I have my credentials available with me, so I am going to go ahead and I am going to enter my credentials over here. Now see, you guys would also see two options, live trading and paper trading. So is the name suggests live trading is basically to trade in live markets, and paper trading is basically simulated trading. So I'm going to enter into my simulated trading section, okay.

Speaker 1  14:10  
And once I click on paper login, it will load the application. It will take few seconds. And once the application loads, we can go ahead and we can explore what the application looks like and what are the various facilities that this application provides.

Unknown Speaker  14:34  
Okay, I understand and accept.

Speaker 1  14:43  
Would the trial version allow us to do all you do? It would allow you to perform almost all operations, almost all right, great, okay, now that we hold. Logged in into the IB TWS application, okay, which is the trader workstation. We can see these, window is divided into multiple panes, okay. On the top right, we have the monitor pane or the watch list, where we can add any financial instrument or the contract that we intend to trade, okay? And we could also go ahead, and we could also like group them into different tabs, okay, so over here, I'm going to use the by default tab, the favorite step, and if I want to add any financial instrument or any contract, I just need to click on any of this empty row, okay? And once I click on the empty row, it will ask me to enter the ticker or the name of the financial instrument that I want to trade. Okay, so over here, what I'm doing is like, I'm just putting it any say I want to trade TCS. Okay, so TCS is a IT giant in the Indian markets, and I want to trade it. And before I I trade it, I need to edit on my watch list or the monitor pane, okay? So I will enter TCS I would query for it, and to query, I just need to hit enter or return, okay, and once I hit Enter, I will see all the available options matching to my query. Okay, so over here I see there is this Texas Inc on the tscx exchange. There is action enterprises on FWB two exchange. There is this data consultancy services on NSC. And I am interested in this particular company, data consultancy services listed on NSC. Okay, now I also see that for this particular underlying or for this particular stock, there are stocks future options. I can add anything that I would like to add. Okay, so the idea is, once you hit, once you enter your query, and you hit enter, it will show you all the possible financial instruments that we can add, and we can add whatever we would like to edit over here. So I would just like to add stocks over here. Okay, once I add the stock, it will load all the prices and whatnot, right? So this is the monitor pane, and likewise, I could head over here, say, futures options, say futures or options anything like say, I want to add the nifty futures. So I simply type in Nifty hit enter and it says that, okay, nifty is only listed on SGX. No, I don't want to add the one that is this next year. I want to add the one that is listed on NSC, right? So I need to write nifty 50. It is saying it okay, it has index. See this time it's it. It doesn't show me the option of stock. Why? Because nifty 50 is an index. It's not a stock, but there are futures and options available on the index. So I can go ahead, I can add the futures contract. When I click on futures, it is telling me that, okay, there are multiple features available for these particular underlying Which one do you want to add? I say I want to add the continuous one, okay? And it simply adds the continuous futures. Over here, a pretty basic and a simple way to add the any finance instrument or the contract. So in Interactive Brokers term this financial instruments are known as the contracts. Okay? Right in the bottom right, what we have is the news pain. Now this is a real time, real time news pain that keeps on showing various news from multiple sources, right? Usually, we don't need to configure anything. It simply keeps on showing whatever news that are available for the particular geography and for a particular user, right? But one interesting feature that I like over here is the effect click on TCS, it will filter all the TCS related news and it will show me, okay, okay, a small a small feature, but an interesting one right. Great. Coming to the left hand side of this window, we have three panes, the order entry pane, the chart in the information pane, and lastly, we have the activity pane, okay, so let's. Begin with the Order Entry pain. So over here on the top left, we have the order entry pin. Now, depending on the instrument that we select from, the monitor, monitor pane, all these information would be pre loaded onto the charts the information pane and the order entry. Pain, okay, and based on this information, we can perform various trading operations. So say, I want to buy this particular instrument, then I can, I could simply select on the buy button. I could put in the quantity, let's say, 10. Okay, I want to, if I want to buy at the market price, I can simply put market over here, and then I just need to go and I need to click Submit. There are two, two more options available over here, which is day like that, is the day or the time validity, okay? For how long the order should be valid. I am not changing anything. I am simply keeping it the default values. And then there is this advance which will say, like, do we want to add stop loss? Do you want to add bracket order or whatnot? If I, if I don't want to do anything, I simply need to keep everything in the default once I click on Submit over here, okay, once they click on Submit over here, we can see that it will it ask me for the confirmation. And once I click on transmit, I see over here

Unknown Speaker  21:37  
in the activity pane. In the activity pain, I see that

Speaker 1  21:44  
orders, the order has been placed right for Reliance to buy at the market price for 10 quantities. But of course, like over here, it is Sunday evening, and as a result, nothing will happen. The order will sit until the exchange opens next time. Okay, and until then, I can, if I want to cancel this order, I can simply also cancel it, because the order was lying at the brokers end and not at the market sent. So in the activity pane, we can trick whatever we do if there are, if we place some orders and the trades are to happen, we will see those trades happening over here, right? Great. So we this is what we have for activity pain over here, orders and traits. And the summary tape shows you the summary of what all the trading activity that we do great over here in the in the in the center part of the top, in the center part of the window, we have the charts. So this is the notebook chart, like OhsC chart the real time. And on the far left, we have this information pane, which will show us the like current, be it current, ask today's high, low, the if there are any fundamental data available with them, it will show those fundamental data and whatnot. However, over here, we see like there is no fundamental data being presented as of now. But if you want to check the information about the particular instrument right, like what that instrument is like, for what duration it is available for trading, or on which exchange it is available for trading, during what time it is available for trading, what we can do is we can go to the monitor pane. We can select the instrument right, click on it. Okay, right click on it and search for financial instrument info. If you do, if you guys don't see this option, financial instrument info, expand the dialog box, okay, then you should be able to see financial instrument info. And from financial instrument info, click on description, click on description. And once you see description over here, you would be able to identify all information like, Okay, what is the which, which kind of financial instrument in instrument it is so we see over here it is stock. It's IG number, it's icing number in Fiji, the currency in which it trades, the exchange on which it is listed, the ticker symbol, okay, industry, sector, what not. And the trading schedule that is like for during which time to which time it is available for trading. So we see that over here it is currently closed, and exchange time that in which it operates is Asia, Kolkata, okay. I. Can do it for any instrument. I could go ahead with, with this future symbol as well, I can open financial instrument info and click on description, and this is what we see, okay, this is what we see over here. It shows me that, what is the margin require? Requirement, what not? Let me see, I see that it I am not able to see the Oh, yeah. So for certain instruments, you would also be able to get the fundamental data. But I believe this is only available to the accounts which are paid, which are which have access to the particular info, particular exchange, mostly trial accounts or the or the demo accounts. Want to show this fundamental data, but if someone wants to take a look at it, they can take a look, take a look at using this finance instrument info, okay, great, let me see like, let me see to the questions, and then we can, we shall proceed further. Which software is this? This is Interactive Brokers trading terminal. That is DWS, yes, could you switch to the light background of the theme? I believe that, like my system team, my systems theme is black, so by default, it is black, but again, we are done with it, so you should not be able to now find issue. So what is the difference between a normal index future and the continuous futures? No, they are one in the same. But what happens in the continuous futures is like, we don't need to change these instrument whenever the current expiry expire the current future, the current contract expires, right? So, if I go ahead and if I type in Nifty 50 over here, okay, if I add future of, say, December, of whose last date is 30 December, right? So, after 30, so if I open these terminals on 31st December, it will show me that this particular contact has been expired, and it won't show me any data over here, right? So what happened? What happens is like, I need to keep updating my monitor, window, monitor ping, every now and then, but if I had added the continuous features, it will keep on changing or updating on its own.

Speaker 1  27:50  
You could like So Arun Kumar, you could, as I mentioned, if you can't see the financial instrument info, just expand your menu and you should be able to see right? Okay. Ticker data for paper trading account is with a delay, or is it real time? So is it usually the real time? So it is the same data that we get in our paid account. Okay? So usually with Interactive Brokers, simulated account, simulated login, or the paper login, or the live trading, are one in the same they just provide you different credentials, but the data subscription that you get is on the live trading part which are, which is replicated on the paper trading. So you would get the same data in paper trading as well as live trading, but the fields that you get in paper trading would be simulated. Okay, so they try to simulate the market, but the fields that you are going to get in the paper trading won't be real. It would be simulated one. No, we, I, I'm not sure what do you mean by the me account facility? Oh, yeah. So what you what you suggesting is the right is the paper trading, right? So over here, this is my paper trading. We see over here, like, this is a paper trading account for simulated trading, so I can place orders, I can I can do with whatever I want, right? And I usually get some like limit as well over here, I believe, or they provide some default limit of 2 million. So we could, we could go ahead and we could test our strategies. We could, yeah, we could do anything that we would like to do. So what you're saying is basically the paper trading. That is what we are doing over here. Yeah, so we shall, again. So the I'm just showing you how a trading terminal looks like, and now, once we are aware of like, what this, what this trading terminal is, we can. We shall go ahead and we shall try to automate the operations that we have been performing over here using Python. So to answer your question, what is the purpose of this software? The purpose of this software is to trade. So manual traders use such software applications to trade. Okay, so can we trade from this? The answer is yes, or it is just for the analysis purpose. No, it's not only for the analysis purpose. We can go ahead and we can, like, trade it. We can see charts if you want to perform analysis. We could do that, right? So that's the idea. Okay, great. So this is what we had in store with regards to TWS. Let's proceed further. Okay, so our goal is to automate a strategy, right? Our goal is to go ahead and automate whatever strategy, whatever trading operations that we might want to perform, and we in an automated way. Okay, so what we were doing until now is we were here. Okay, we were we were here. We were performing all different trading operations over here on IBT Ws. That is the the desktop application that we were having, right? And this desktop application is connected with the stock exchange. So whenever we perform any trading operation, like aid instrument, fetch data or whatever, okay, or place orders or view option chain, whatever we do, we were doing all those operations over here on this particular application, and this application was indeed connected with the stock exchange. And so when, if I place the order, it will go, it will connect to the stock exchange, it will place the order accordingly, right? But our goal is to automate those operations, right? So whatever operations that we are performing over here, that is whatever trading operations that we are performing over here, it could be placing of orders, it could be fetching of data. It could be maintaining positions, whatnot, whatever trading operations that were that we are performing over over here, we want to automate them. And the way we automate them is by,

Speaker 1  32:52  
is by building a Python script. Okay, is by building a Python script that connects to the TWS. Okay, see, this is the important part. Okay, so until now, we were performing all those trading operations over here and it was connected to the stock exchange. However, our idea is to perform those operations that we were, that we just saw, okay, using some kind of automation. And the way it happens is like we are going to write a Python script, that Python script is going to connect with the AWS application, and that Python script is going to perform those operations. And in a way that it will connect to the PWS, it will fetch data, it will load all the contracts, it will it will perform the analysis. And based on the analysis, whenever it needs to place any order, it will place the order. It will check for the order status. It will check, it will see whether the order has been executed or not. If need be. It could go ahead and it could modify the order that is it will it can keep on maintaining the positions, okay, and whenever the market changes or the price updates are received, it could go ahead and it could close those positions and whatnot. So our idea is to go ahead and build such python script. Okay? And to build such a Python script, we need to have certain tools available with us that allows us to connect to TWS, right? So just having the knowledge of Python is not enough. We need to have certain tools accessible which allows us to connect to TWS, right? So. AWS on its own is an application. My Python program is going to be in another application, but now I need something, or I need at least some kind of tool that allows me to connect these both applications, which is my Python program and TWS, okay, so this is what we aim to do, and we aim to do, and we will be able to do this by by by something known as the API. Okay, by something known as the API. So, so before we discuss what API is, I want to understand your idea like when someone says API, what do you mean by API? What do you understand by the term API?

Speaker 1  36:01  
Yes, happy that is true. That is correct. Yep, so I I request everyone to participate. So when someone says, API, what is your understanding about API? What actually it means to you?

Unknown Speaker  36:25  
Okay,

Speaker 1  36:35  
okay, okay, I'm just so let me just go through the responses that we have received until So someone says it is an application programming interface. Another one also says the same application programming interface. Manikan then says it is a connector. Okay? It is a very apt way to put like, what API is, but, yeah, that is, that is, that is really correct. It's kind of a connector. It is software code which you can use. Manjunath says, yeah. It is a way to communicate with PWS. Okay, account very, very relevant to what I was going to say. Okay, Arun, I will answer your question in a while. So Sonia says two websites working together and sharing information. Oh yeah, of course. So perfect. Rago says it is a code of block or of program in file to be used, okay? Oh yeah, happy, happy. You have a really good analogy API, like, which is API is like a waiter who goes to and takes our food. That's true. Yeah? Great. So, so most of you have some understanding about what API is, yeah. So Vishnu says it is something that helps to communicate between applications and yeah. Raghuvendra also says something similar, yes, your answer is also correct. So, true. So API, which stands for a

Speaker 1  38:23  
application, programming interface, right? So I for here and application Okay, so let's begin from the interface part. So that is, it is an interface which simply says that it provides a medium of communication between two parties. Okay, usually this, when I say parties, these are software applications, okay? And what are those? What are these two parties? These two parties are basically a client and a server, okay? Again, to be very specific, it allows so API is an interface, or it acts as a medium of communication between two parties which are applied, who usually requests for the data, okay, and a server who uses the response. Okay, so we know that API is an interface that x is a medium of communication between two software applications, but at the same time it is. A programmable interface. Okay, it is a programmable interface in a sense that it can be programmed. And when I say it can be programmed, it means that it has a structured way of communication, so the client who is requesting data. Okay, needs to access or needs to request data in some structured way. It cannot ask that. It cannot ask for anything. It has to ask what is available with the server or what the server could handle. Okay, so in a sense, it is a it is a structured way of communication, and the way this communication is being performed is in the way of structured requests and responses. Okay, the responses will come from the server side, and the request is, requests would be made by the client. And this API, which is a programmable interface itself, is an application, okay, which is like it's, it is a piece of software, right, right? Right. So APA is a piece of software which follows a structured way of communication between the software, between the client and the server, where usually client requests for some data and the server response. Okay, so if I were to put it in simple words, I could say API is a piece of software that x is a medium of communication between a client and a server. Okay, it facilitates. Facility dates communication in a programmatic fashion, right? So this is what the API is. So over here on the kind of applications that we are going to have, one application we will have is the Python application, and another application that we will have is the IBT AWS, which is the trading terminal and APA will lay somewhere over here, right? So this part will basically act as an API. So in our Python program, we will need to have some kind of API which will have access or which will allow us to connect to this. TWS, okay. So this is what we are going to have now see, as I mentioned earlier, as I mentioned earlier, there are multiple ways in which a trading strategy could be automated, okay, in almost all the ways that you are going to encounter, all those ways, would be using APA in one form or the other. Okay, they would be using APIs in one form or the other. Now, in a sense that these APIs, which is a piece of software, could come in multiple ways or in multiple formats. So the API that we are going to use today comes in the form of a Python package, okay, so we will have to have that Python package installed on our machine, and in our Python program, we are going to import the Python package, which is an API, okay, which will allow us to connect to the AWS. In the upcoming class, we will see the how the API comes in the form of URLs. Okay, so one of our friends over here also mentioned like the API or the the asset of HTTP URLs. So that is another way of API. Yeah, that's true. So Vishnu says that it is a software that helps communicate between applications. Perfect. That is absolutely correct. So this is the idea. The API simply refers to as an interface for us over here, the interface is this Zoom meeting the Zoom platform so we are able to interact with each other right via this zoom platform, which is acting as a in which is acting as an interface between us. Now this interface is not programmatic, because we. Are performing these actions manually, but if this, if this platform allows us to connect in some automated way, it could be called an Sapa, okay. But again, what is the definition of an interface? Interface is basically anything that acts as a medium of communication, okay? So the Kishore ask if we have a good setup, then we don't need to login into TWS platform. Can we execute and monitor our trades via our ID? That is partially true Kishore, so as we will see, like in the in the in the class going forward, yeah, that's the that's the basic idea that, once you have a setup, you could simply let your Python code execute your traits. That's true. That's the our aim. That's the our that is our goal, okay, but at the same time, it does require you to log in into the platform, okay? And those are the regulatory requirements. So in almost all geographies, regulatory entities mandate brokers that the client should login into their platforms every now and then, okay, but once you log in, yes, your your Python program, or your program would be able to execute your trades in an automated fashion. That's that's the idea, right? Kishore, okay, great, so APIs. APIs is a medium of communication. It could come either as a Python package or a set of URLs in today's class, we are going to focus on the API that comes as a Python package, right? Great. So let us move ahead. Now see. So yeah, let me go ahead and let me just put it over here so we see that. So we say that IB is an interactive broker. It's a broker. TWS is a trader workstation. It's a desktop application. So when someone says TWS or IB, TWS or Ws,

Speaker 1  47:25  
IB TW they are one in the same. Okay, at the same time we have IB TWS API, or TWS API, right? They are, they are also one in the same. And when we say APA, we are referring to this API, what we just discussed over here. Okay, so don't let these terms confuse you. When we when someone says TWS, they're referring to the desktop application, when someone is referring to the TWS API, or ibtws API, they are referring to the API part that is with which they can perform things in a automated, auto, automated fashion, right? So Don't, don't let these terms confuse you. Okay, great. Now what is in TWS API? So TWS API is basically the API provided by the IB. It is an official API. There are some unofficial API also available out there for the Interactive Brokers. But again, we are going to different. We are going to discuss the official one. Okay, it is different from TWS, which is the desktop application, and it allows us to perform operations like order placements, receiving market data, okay, creating finance instrument, instruments and whatnot, which is usually required when we go ahead and try to automate our strategies, right? So before we do this, before we discuss what, what is the architecture of the API and how, what it entails about, we need to discuss two important topics before that. So let us proceed to discuss that, and then we'll come back. Okay? Before that, let me see if there are any questions. So someone says, is interactive broker also like zerodha? Yes, very much. They both are very similar. So zerodha is also a broker. Interactive broker is also a broker. How does it differ from fix. Okay, so fix is another API right, which is usually used in the institutional setting, usually between financial entities. So again, fix is also an API, and whatever API that we are discussing over. Year is a broker specific API, right? So, fix is a very fix is a you can think of fix is a common API that could be used between multiple financial entities, right? So, if I have a financial So, if I have some financial organization, or I'm working with financial organization which needs to connect to another financial organization, and if we both use fix, we could communicate with each other very easily. So in a sense, fix has become the industry standard for communication between financial entities, okay, but again, fixed is also an API, and so again, it allows communication between multiple entities together, but it has its own syntax and it has its own formats and whatnot. Now, when it comes to retail trading, every broker will have their own set of FPS, okay, so what we are discussing over here is one of the APIs, which is the Interactive Brokers API. Right? Arvind, in the upcoming lectures, we will see what different kinds of APIs also like available and how we can generalize this aspect, right? It could be true. It could be. So Manjunath says that, in a way, fix is used by interactive broker when you when your order needs to be placed to the exchange. It could be, yeah, we never know. So Arvind. Arvind Kumar asked that if to get market data like Historical quotes, etc. Do I need fixed to get it from the vendors? No, not really. So again, in today's class, we'll see like how you can fetch a historical data from TWS. Okay, great. So let us proceed towards understanding the communication models. Okay, see, before we discuss this communication models, I want to again emphasize on what this API is. So API is a piece of software that acts as a medium of communication right between a client and a server. So one thing is clear, that it requires a client and a server, right? And it facilitates communication in a programmatic fashion, that is, the client can make a request and the server will respond, okay. So the whole idea of API is to facilitate communication between the client and the server. Okay, so and this communication has to be in a structured way that it could not happen, that the that the client could ask for, literally anything which the which the server could not respond to, and the server keeps on responding with any, anything, garbage that the client does not require, okay? Or the client does not need, no that that should not happen. If such thing happens, it is a sheer wastage of resources, okay? So the communication that happens or that needs to happen, happen in a structured way. The client asks for something, the server responds accordingly. If the server cannot respond, the server should say or the server should provide some kind of error in a structured way. So for this kind of communication to happen. There are multiple models available, okay, so the first kind of model that we are going to discuss is the synchronous way of communication, okay? Or the synchronous communication are, to put it simply, wherein we have a client in a server. Okay, now the client sends some requests to the server. See, we have a client in the server, and the client sends the first request to the server. Assume that this request, RQ one, is a request to establish the connection with the server, right? So what is happening over here is we have a client and a server, the and the client is sending the request to establish a connection with the server. The request goes to the server, the server, the request goes to the server at time t, okay, the server takes some time to process the request that it is received, and at time t plus one, okay, the server acknowledges back to the client. It with response RS one. Okay, so over here, at time t, client sent the request RQ one, and at time t plus one, the server acknowledged and sent back the response RS one to the client. At time t plus one, based on the response that the client is received. Based on the response that the client is received, the client will perform some internal operations and whatnot. And at t plus two, the client sends another request. RQ two. Now this time, it could be the request to get some data about financial instruments. Okay, at time t plus two, once the connection has been established, the client is asking for information about some financial instruments. At time t plus two, server will take two units of time to process that information. And at time t plus four, the server is sending response back to the client with RS two. Is Rs two? Okay. Now again, based on the response received from the server, the client processes that response, and client will send a new request back to the server. So over here, what is happening is the client is sending some request. See now we are on the client side the when we say client, client is basically us or our Python program that we are going to write. So we need to see everything from the client's perspective. We don't have even access to what the server is doing, like how the server is being managed, or in in what programming language the server is being written to. No, we don't know anything.

Speaker 1  56:55  
We are sitting here on the client side. So we are the client, and we our program X is a client, and all the operations that we are performing that happens on the client side. Okay, so our Python program is a client of the server is a client of the broker. Okay, so we need to see from the client's perspective, we are really not concerned about what the server does, and What? What? What? It doesn't, okay. So we are at the client side. And now, if you pay focus on the client side, what is happening is client is sending some request to the server, and then until the response comes back from the server, client is simply sitting idle. Okay? Client is simply sitting idle. So this dotted line, or this, yeah, this broken line shows the client is not doing anything. The client is sitting idle. Okay, once the response is received from the server, the client starts processing. So this whole line shows the processing being done by the client. Okay, so over here the client, once the in, once the response is received from the server, the clients can start processing it. And once this client is processed it, the client will again request for some data, until the response comes back, the client is again idle. Client is not doing anything. Client is simply waiting for the response to come back. Once the response comes back, it will again, process it, and this cycle keeps and continue. Okay, so over here, what we see is we have a client, and the client is making request, waiting for the response. Once the response is received, it again makes a request. It Wait, it waits for the response. So on the client side, we see that the way the communication is being happening, okay, happens in a synchronous way. It sends. It ask for some data. It waits for the data. It asks for the data. It waits for the data. Once the data comes, it processes it, it against ask for new data, right? So this way of communication wherein the client sends some data, ask some data, and simply keeps on waiting for the data to come, for the response to come, is known as synchronous mode of communication. Now see on the server side, that won't be the case, because at any given time, server would be handling multiple clients at the same time, right? So for server, once the connection has been established, the server could say that, okay, the server is always up and listening or up and ready to get any request from any of the clients. So for for server, that is not the case. But on the client, we see that until the client does not have anything to work upon. The client will simply sit on, will simply sit idle, and will basically perform nothing, okay, so this is synchronous way of communication, right? And these things keeps on, going on and on. Then we have asynchronous mode of communication, okay? In asynchronous mode of communication is, as some of you might have already guessed, the way the communication happens between the client and the server is not synchronous. Okay? How? Let's see, again, we we have a client in a server. Okay. Now the client sends RQ one the request, one at time, t below server, and it t plus one, the server response back right. And now assume that RQ one is a request to establish the connection between the client in the server and AT T plus one, the connection got established, okay. And once the connection has been established, the client knows that now it can send any information at any point in time, okay. So at t plus two, the client is requesting for some data, say, for example, it is requesting for some financial instrument info. Okay, like it is, it is asking for data about the Apple security. Now see what is happening over here. Is before it receives the response back from the server, it is making another request. Okay? It is making another request, RQ three. And if we see that we still haven't received the response for request number two, and it is absolutely okay, right? So over here the client can. Client need not wait for the response to come back. The client can send multiple independent request to the server, and as in, when the responses for those individual requests are available, the server will keep on sending back to the client so the client has that ability to receive responses from the server and to send new requests to the server at the same time, the client can perform multiple tasks at the same time in this kind of mode of communication. Okay, so over here, before the response of our q2 has been received, the client has sent our q3 okay, now the client send receives the response for Rs two, and based on this response, the client might want to make another request. Okay, it could happen, right? And at the same time, it could also happen that the response that the client is receiving from the server is is being received in parts, okay, so what we see over here is the response for the RQ two that the server that the client is sent is being received in multiple parts, so the server has sent some information in the first part, some other information in the second part, okay. And based on this information, based on these responses that the client receives, the client can take decision to perform what action to be performed next? Okay? And see now it is receiving RS three. Okay, that is the response for request number three and what not. And based on the request and the responses received at the client, and the client can take decisions accordingly. Okay, so based on these Rs three or whatever, we don't know, the client now sends RQ four, and this cycle keeps on continue, okay, so what we see over here is like at the client side, at the client and, okay, once the connection has been established, there is no broken line, okay? There is no broken line. And as such, the client is always working on something. The client either is up and listening for the responses from the server, or it is analyzing some data and it is preparing some request and whatnot. So asynchronous mode of communication is used when we need to stream live data. Okay, so what happens is, like in our Python program, we connect to the server, we subscribe for live date. Data for some in for some instruments. And then we say that, as in, when the new price information is available at the server end, the server will keep on broadcasting that new price data to us, and we we shall keep on listening to that price data, as in when it comes, okay? And on the other hand, we also would have another facility in our program that could make new request to the server based on the incoming data from the server, okay, so if we have subscribed to some kind of data, the say, real time prices, real time quotes, okay, as in, when the real time quotes come in, we will keep on analyzing those incoming prices. And if we see the the market has breached some price level, we want to enter new position or close the existing position. We can perform those operations. So in a way that asynchronous mode of communication is the one where client can perform multiple things simultaneously, okay, and synchronous mode of communication is the one where client performs operations one by one, okay. Now, what could be an example of an asynchronous mode of communication, the current communication that we are doing over here, that the current,

Speaker 1  1:06:29  
the way we are communicating with each other right now, is the example asynchronous mode of communication. I am communicating with you via the audio channel. Okay? And you guys are communicating with me via the text channel, okay, via the chat channel, so in a way that I don't need to wait for you to put in your question and then I respond. And likewise, you guys don't need me to stop explaining, and then you ask questions you guys, like, whenever you guys have an equation, you guys can simply go ahead and keep on putting your question and as in, when I get time isn't when I feel so I can take those questions. So, so that's an example of an asynchronous mode of communication. Okay, now, what is the synchronous mode of communication? What is the synchronous mode of communication? What could be an example of synchronous mode of communication? Usually the chatting right now, again, chatting is actually the asynchronous way of communication, but usually we say that when we when we are on a phone call, we say something, and the other person would respond accordingly, right? Again, of course, like in a real world setting, either of the parties could speak at any point in time, but again, you guys get it right. So now let me go ahead and let me take some questions, and then we say, proceed further. So

Speaker 1  1:08:03  
okay, no, so the question is, over here is so the author asked, how server approximates that the client will require this data in sync mode, in async mode of communication? No, okay, so thorough. That is not how it happens. Usually, the way we connect to the server. Okay. We already specify whether this connection, that is that we are connecting, the connection that we are establishing with the server, will have a synchronous mode or synchronous mode, okay. In fact, not only the establishment of connections, the protocols that we use to communicate with the server itself dedicates whether the communication is asynchronous or synchronous, okay, so let me break the ice in today's class, we are not going to touch upon synchronous mode of communication. We will not again, none of the things that we will do will involve synchronous mode of communication. We are only going to work with asynchronous mode of communication, and that is because the API that we are going to use itself only supports asynchronous mode of communication. So whether we need to use asynchronous mode of communication or synchronous mode of communication is not in our hand. The way the API has been designed, it only supports asynchronous mode of communication. Okay. I meant, so again ask, I meant, what kind of what type of data client requires, how the server will know? Oh, we will come to that part. Author will come to that part. Once we get into the demonstration part, this answer to this query will will come naturally. Yeah. Can we say in in asynchronous mode of communication, we have more than one node of server? Yeah, it could be. Why not? Why? Yeah, of course. Now it again. See it is not the only it won't be only in asynchronous mode, right? It could be in synchronous mode because at any point in time, the server will have to handle multiple clients, regardless of synchronous or asynchronous, right? How does the client know which response is for which request account? Very good question. So usually, whenever, whenever we make request, we usually attach some Request ID to it. Okay, at least in IB API that we are going to discuss today, and in other form of API, usually we need to have some kind of ID. Need to attach some kind of ID so that the client gets to know for which request the response is being received for. Okay, so again, as we once we go to the demonstration, these things will become more clear, yeah, Sonia, TCP, that's true. TCP connection, in this case, who is client and who is server. So client is us, server is the broker. Okay, so I see I have answered most of the questions, so let me so okay. I don't see any any more questions, any anymore now. So let us go ahead and let us now discuss the architecture of the API that we are going to use. And once we discuss the architecture of the API, we are going to come to this IB information, how the information flow, and we will then go ahead and how things work in practice. Okay, see. So please pay attention over here, guys for the next 15 minutes, and then we will have a short break, after which we will come back, we'll understand the architecture, and we'll then jump to the Python code. So please pay attention over here for the next 15 minutes. So we discuss. So as we discussed, the AP comes in multiple forms, right? This particular API that we are going to work with comes in the form of a Python package. Okay, now if we really see, what are these IPython packages? This Python packages are nothing but a collection of Python classes. Okay, usually, any Python package that we that we take, and if we dissect it, all we would find are the other classes, right? So Python package is nothing but a collection of Python classes. Likewise, the API that we are going to work with. And by the by the way, the name of the API is IB API, okay, the name of the package that we are going to use is the IB API. So this IB APA is nothing but a collection of Python classes, and out of whatever classes that it it encompasses of there are two classes that are of importance to us. Okay, there are, there are many more, but the two most important classes are e client and E wrapper. Okay, so these are the two most important classes out of whatever classes that this package has. Okay, now see, please pay attention over here. E client class is used to make request by the client. Okay, so whenever the client wants to make requests, any kind of request, okay, whether to establish the connection, whether to disconnect the connection, whether to fetch positions, or whether to stream data, any kind of request. Whenever the client needs to make any kind of request, the client needs to use methods available in the E client class, I repeat, whenever the client needs to make any kind of request, okay, it could be any trading operations the client needs to use methods provided by the E client class. Okay and whenever the client wants to receive Okay, whenever the client wants to receive any responses from the server, okay, whenever the client wants to receive any responses for any of the requests made by the client from the server. Okay, the client needs to use methods from the E wrapper class, right? So there are these two classes that are really important for IB API. E, client class and the E wrapper class. Okay, so the client makes a request using a function from one class, and the client receives the response in another method coming from another class. See, this is very important and very, very distinct from what you guys have learned until now. Okay, the client, which is the Python program, needs to use a method from one class, which is the E client class, to make a request, and the same client needs to use another method from another class, which is the E wrapper class, to receive response for the for the request made earlier. Okay, so there are these two classes, e client and E wrapper, right? Please keep this in mind. It is going to be very important, and this will help you understand how the architecture is actually working under the hood. Okay, so having these two things in mind. Let us go ahead. Let us see how the information flows from our Python program to TWS. Okay. So yes, what I'm speaking is something unconventional that that does not fall under the normal Python purview, but that is how this that is how this API is being designed. Okay, so let us go ahead and let us see how the information flows. Okay, so please pay attention over here, okay, over here on the left hand side, we have a python file, and that Python file makes use of IBA pa package, okay, and that Python file is the client. So we are on the client side. So whatever coding that we do, we would we do on this Python on the client side that is in the Python file. And IB Tw is x is a server, okay, so for us, the server is the text of application. I be TWS, okay. Now see

Speaker 1  1:18:09  
on the client side, whenever we make the whenever we want to make a request, okay, say we want to request current time from the we want to request current time from the server. And by the way, this is a method from the IB API library, okay, so this IB API Python package has this particular function in it, right? And we are just using that function to get the current time, okay, so client is asked, is requesting for the current time, and this particular method, as we discuss, comes from the E client class, okay, so we are making a request to get the current time, and this method comes from the E client class. Okay, so what? So what happens is like, so what happens here we have a python file. In the Python file, we use a method request current time that comes from the E client class. So using the API, we connect to the IB TWS. So we the request goes to IB TWS. The IB TWS will process the request, and once the request has been processed, the IB TWS will respond back to the Python file via another method, and that method comes from the E wrapper class, okay, so we make request using this particular method, and the response of this method comes in another method, current time and this method, current time method over here comes from another class, which is E wrapper class, right? So the way the information flows is from we make a request using a method that comes from the E client class, and that request goes to the server. The server processes that request, and the server will then send response back to the client via another method that comes from another class E wrapper, okay, so in a way that these both methods, or this both, yeah, in a way that these both methods are linked with each other, okay, now we is the end user. Do not need to worry about how to link these methods. That is the job of this IB API, okay, but we need to use these two methods together to complete the whole flow, okay, if we only implement this method, there is no use. Why? Because we are never going to request anything, or we are we are not requesting any time such that the response comes here, okay, and if we only use this method right, and if we don't use this method, we would be able to make the request right, but the way the response comes, we would never be able to handle that response, right? So there are two methods, one for making the request and another to receive the response, and we need to use both methods all the time. If we use only one of those methods, the whole flow won't be completed, and either you won't be able to receive the response or you won't be able to make the request. Okay? So please keep this in mind. Now there are not only these two methods, the whole API is designed such a way that for each individual e client method, okay, they exist one or more e Wrapper method, right? I repeat, there are not just only these two methods request current time or current time. The whole API is designed in such a way that for each method that we use to place request to the server. There is going to be one or more associated e Ripper method with that E client method, right? So for example, over here, if I'm fetching some contract details, if I'm fetching some details for the financial for the financial instrument, I need to use request contract details class, and for to receive the response, I need to use the contract details right to fetch historical data. I need to make a request using request, historical data method, and I receive response via this method, historical data, method, right? So this is something that we need to keep in mind. So this is how the whole flow works. So what we are going to do now is that we will jump into the Python code and we'll see how these two methods, or how these two classes are related with each other, and for what operation, what different methods do we need to use? Okay, but before that, let me take some questions, and then we shall go for a break. Okay, so

Speaker 1  1:23:44  
ragwendra, you are correct. The PI, the Python file name are the client.pi and the wrapper.pi however, the class name inside the client.pi is the E client and the class name inside the wrapper.pi, is the E wrapper. So you are correct, in a way, that the Python file name are the client in the wrapper, but the class names are e client and E wrapper. Please check Yeah, you're correct. I like, I get your point. But yeah, that's that's how it is. What is the Python command to know the list of methods present in E client or E wrapper. Unfortunately, there is no such Python command, but what you can do is you can go to go through this documentation. Okay, so this is new documentation, okay. However, I'm not much fond of the new documentation. Here is the link to the old documentation. On this old documentation, you can go through go to this classes, class list, iba, pi, e client. Once you click on this E client, you would be able to see all the methods that are that are available inside the. Class, other, e client class, right? So let me just give you this link over here you can, you guys can go through these link see, like, what it is, what not?

Speaker 1  1:25:18  
Okay, what is the difference? Can you please elaborate your question? Like difference is in what stair then says, how to access e client in Europe? You can go ahead and you can simply use the ibapi library. So let me show you here. So this is how we import those two classes again. Just give me a few minutes after the break. We are just going, we are going to dive into the Python code. Will we will see we will work with only this part. What are the what are the limits when requesting historical data? How far back can we go? This is really a practical question, so it again. The short answer is, it really depends on what kind of instrument for which you are requesting data, okay? Over here, yeah, so it says that, yeah, you can, you can just read this part, okay? And for single request, you can say that, like, how long for like, yeah, for how long back you can ask for data in a single request. Let me again, share this part with you. Max.

Speaker 1  1:26:56  
Can I explain these classes with a with an example? Of course, let's take after the break, shresh, in which language the API is programmed? In which language it is being programmed, I really don't know, but it is supported in multiple languages. So as we can see over here, it is available in C Sharp, Java, VBC, Python. So I am of the opinion that it would be coded in all this language, could you please also send new link? Oh, yeah, of course. Why not?

Speaker 1  1:27:36  
So, yeah, in a Suresh asks so for different brokers, do we need to study their API methods? Yes. Usually the answer is yes. But again, this is just being the very first class. I won't jump the guns over here. In the upcoming classes, we see like, how we can go ahead and we can unify this whole idea. And we see like, what different approaches are there so that we don't need to only depend on a single broker, right? But again, we would be jumping that if we discuss over here. So all right, I don't see any more questions over here. So let's do one thing. Let us take a small break of like 10 minutes, and we would be back at 539, on my screen. And then we will take this class further. All right, I'll see you in some time. You.

Speaker 1  1:34:20  
Okay, all right, so I believe you guys had a good breather. Can someone quickly confirm if I'm audible loud and clear?

Speaker 1  1:34:39  
Great. Thanks guys for confirming so let us resume from where we had left before the break. Before the break, we discussed the nature of the package. We mentioned that it is a collection of Python classes and out of whatever classes they. That are available within the Python within the package on the two most important classes are the E client and the E wrapper right. The methods from the E client class is used to make request by the client, and the methods from the E wrapper class is used to receive responses from the server at the client side, right? So this keep this in mind, and once you have these little thing in the back of your mind, the code that we are going to see will start making much more sense, okay? And before we go there, I also want to display the structure of the code, okay? So the code that we are going to learn and discuss now are basically sets of Python snippets that we have over here, right? And it is designed in this way. So over here on the top, on the top row, what do you see are the classes provided by the IB API. Okay, so we over here, we have the E client class, then we have the E wrapper class, and we see that E client class has these methods. Area per class is this method, right? And then we have another class known as contract, which is synonym for the financial instrument. Then we have another class for order, like to manage any orders related operations, right? So what we need to do is like, whenever we intend to use any finance instrument, we need to create the object of that finance instrument and then work with it. Likewise, whenever we want to place any order or perform any order management related thing, we need to create the order of object of this order class and use it. Okay, now how are we going to use this E client in the E wrapper classes? So what we are going to do is like, we are going to inherit e client and E wrapper classes into a single class known as strategy. Okay, by doing so, by doing so, we will have all the components of E client class and all all the components of the E wrapper class available in the single class called strategy. Okay, so this is what we are going to have over here. And once we have that available with us, that is like, once we create this strategy class, we now have access to all the members of E client class and all the members of the ereper class. And then we create the object of the strategy class known as app, okay, and then we start, then we simply keep on working with any object that we that we would want to work with. Okay? So the idea is very simple. Over here we have these two classes. We create a third class, that is, we inherit these two classes into strategy class, and then we create the object of the strategic class, and then we work with any of these methods from either of the classes, right? So this is how the Python codes have been prepared, right? Great, coming back, coming to the Python code that we have over here, which are also shared with you, what you see over here in all these examples that I have shared with you, these codes have been divided into two parts, okay, and that that is like by this particular line, okay. The first part is usually the definition of the strategy class, okay, and the second part is basically the usual usage of that strategy class that is like to create the object, to establish the connection, to perform all these trading operations. So in a way, that the strategy of once we define the strategy class that is the first part, and then we go ahead and we perform or trading operations, right? So that is the second part, although, classes that we see over here, or sorry, all the examples that we see over here, are created using this mechanism. Okay. Now to run the codes, I'm going to use something known as spider. Now this is an IDE, okay, practically, you guys can use any IDE out there, right, except Jupiter. Why not Jupiter? Because Jupiter is not designed to handle things. That are required in live trading. Okay, so in us, in a way that Jupiter environment is more of a research tool, is more of a research ID, like used, is more of an ID used in the analytical purpose, or the research purpose, or something on those lines, right? If you guys want to use, if you want to execute codes that includes asynchronous programming, or, I'd say, where you want to stream real time data, probably the codes won't run on interactive broker. Sorry, my bad. Won't run on Jupyter Notebook. You guys need to have some other IDE and over here, I am simply using the spider ID. But you guys can literally use any ID of your choice. You guys can use VS code, whatever, whatever, like, whatever ID that you are, that you guys are comfortable with, yeah, how to buy heart these spider Python codes. Why do you want to memorize this code? Like never the codes are never meant to be memorized, right? So you don't need to memorize any codes ever. So someone says, are e client, e wrapper only methods, or there are any so again, no. So there is this clear distinction, e client and E, E client and E wrapper. They are not the methods. They are the classes, okay, and these classes will have different methods inside it, okay, so please remember this distinction that E client and E rep, are the classes, not the methods, and are there any other classes? Yes, so over here, as we can see, so E client is the class name. E represents the class name. Likewise, there is contract, there is order, and there are other tons of classes available out there. Okay, now I am just displaying a sample of them, and within this each within each of these classes, they have their own methods, okay, they have their own methods, and each of these are, each of these members would be different than the other ones, right? So, yeah, that is something that you need to keep in mind. So ereper, any classes are the E client, and the ereper are the classes, not the methods, and they have their own methods within it. Strategy is a custom class. Yes, that's true that we create as a part of the API. No, that we create from the API, this not the part of the API Jubilee. So strategy is going to be a custom class, as we see over here. I am going to come in in a few minutes, but yes, strategy is a custom class that we are going to build from the API classes. So it is not going to be the part of the API, but it is going to be built from the API. That's true. What is console to a so again, this is just the area where the codes gets executed, okay, this is just the area where the codes gets executed. Okay, great. So let's begin our very first example wherein we just want to connect to the server. And in our case, over here, the server is the IB, TWS, okay. We want to connect to the server, and we want to fetch current time on the server. So that is the goal of this particular example. And the goal is mentioned over here the Connect python script to TWS. So this is our Python script which we are going to build, okay, and this particular script is also known as the client, okay, we are going to use this script write code over here and connect this script to the TWS IB

Speaker 1  1:44:07  
DWS, which is going to act as a server, and then fetch the current time from there and print it over here. Okay, so that's the goal. So please pay attention over here, guys, what we are like again, most of the things will remain similar in the upcoming examples as well. So it is important that you understand what we are doing over here, as you might fire, might fire face difficulty in the upcoming examples. Okay, great. So over here, first, we are importing the E client class from the IB API, dot client sub module. Okay. Then we are importing e wrapper class from IB, APA, dot, rapper, sub module. Okay, so these are the two classes that we are importing. Then we are importing something known as thread. I will come to this part in some time. Okay. Then. Up, we are importing Time and Date Time, so these are used to handle any date time related operations. Okay, simple. Next, what we do is we create a custom class called strategy. Okay, we create a custom class called strategy, and this class strategy is imported from E client and E wrapper. So E client and E wrapper are the parent classes, and the strategy is the child class. Once we define once we create the strategy class, the very first thing that we need to do is to initialize the strategy class. And to initialize the strategy clause, we are defining the underscore, underscore innate method, or the initialization Dunder method, and it takes the self, the current object as an argument, the self keyword, okay, so over here, we are initializing the strategy class, and within the initialization of the strategy class, we are, in turn, initializing the parent class, okay, within the child within the initial initialization method of the child class, we are initializing the parent class, parent classes. Now, if you see we are only initializing the E client class, but whenever we initialize any class, only single self argument is required. However, over here, we are providing two self arguments, okay, and why is that? So the second self argument that we are providing over here is for the E wrapper class, right? So, the way the APA has been designed, we could initialize the we could initialize both the classes from a single initialization method, and this is how we do it. So this particular line is only required to initialize both parent classes, right? And this is the only line that will remain constant throughout. So once you write this line, you don't need to do anything. You simply need to copy, copy and paste this then every time, right? So, okay, we are defining the strategy class over here from E client and E wrapper classes. Then we are defining the initialization method, and within the initialization method we are initializing the parents. Okay, great. Then within the strategy class, we are also defining another method code. Current Time I will come to this class, come to this method in a few minutes. Okay, great. So this is, this concludes the first part of the class, which is, sorry, first part of the code, which is the importing of all libraries and defining the custom class. So over here we have this custom class strategy which comprises of two methods in it, and current time, I will come to this method in a few minutes. Okay, once we create the class, we can go ahead and we can create the object of the class. Okay, so over here we are creating the object of the class strategy called as app. So app is the name of the object of the class strategy. Okay, once we create the app object, we can use it to connect it to the TWS using the method, app dot connect. So we are using these over here, app dot connect method to connect to TWS, right? Now, this method takes three arguments, okay, this method takes three arguments. The first argument is the host. The host simply requires the IP address of the machine where TWS is installed. Now, in our case over here, the TWS is installed on the same machine. Okay, so my AWS and the Python program, they both exist on the same machine.

Speaker 1  1:49:19  
They both exist on the same machine, and as a result, I am using host equals to local host. Okay, then we have port equals to 7496, so it simply says that, can you guys hear me? Can quickly someone confirm, okay, perfect. So it was the it was not issue at my end. Cool, great. Okay, let's continue. So host is basically the IP address of the machine where I btw is installed. Old, okay, then port is simply the number that we need to provide to identify where on this machine. So on this particular machine, there could be multiple applications running on right, it could be Chrome, it could be PDF viewer, it could be spider, it could be zoom. But on this machine where this Python program needs to connect, so this Python program needs to connect on this particular port number, okay, which is 7496, and this port number is usually configured, is usually configured when you initially configure your IB API, okay, so over here in the IBA settings, we have configured this port number, 7496, right? So this is what we are configuring over here. So we need to provide these two things, that is the local host and the port number. The third thing that we need to provide is the client ID. This. This client ID could be any integer number, okay, this client ID could be any integer number to simply specify which client ID this program is okay. So with this particular API, we can connect 32 strategies at the same time to a single instance of TWS. Okay, so I repeat, with this particular setup, we could connect 32 Python programs at the same time to the to a single instance of TWS. Now, if there are multiple clients, or if there are multiple strategies connected to the same instance of TWS at the same time, right? If we want to identify which Python strategy or which strategy or which Python program is performing, what action we need to have some kind of identification, and that identification comes from this client ID. Okay, now see there is nothing stopping us from providing the same client ID to all Python programs or all strategies. We could do that, right? But then it would be, it would be our headache to identify which strategy did what at what, what time and what not. Okay, so this client ID is just for our. Purpose. Is for our is to identify which client is connected to the PWS. Okay, very simple. So, yep, Client ID one over here. We could have anything, anything over here. Next, we incorporate, next we incorporate a timer that instructs the machine that, okay, you sleep for you sleep for a second. So we are introducing this delay so that we ensure that the connection between the Python program and the TWS happens successfully. There is no need to introduce this delay. But again, to be on the safer side, I'm just introducing this delay in the actual strategies that we write. We usually don't introduce any such delays. Okay, great. So over here, what we did? We first defined the class, then we created the object, then we connected the Python code to the TWS. We wait, we wait for a second for the connection to get established, and then we run something known as this thread. Again, I have not explained what this threading is, so I will come to that part in like later, okay, once the connection is happened, I am going to check whether the connection is established or not, okay, once the once I check the connection is established or not, I am going to make my very first request. Okay, I am going to make my very first request using app dot request current time, right? So this app dot request current time is going to make the request to the TWS to fetch the current time, right? Once I once this request is once this request goes to the server, I simply go ahead to the next line. Very, very nice, saying that, okay, I'm again, introducing this time step of 15 seconds, and after 15 seconds, I'm disconnected, disconnecting my Python program from the TWS. Now I do these two operations because I want to perform multiple operations in multiple files. Usually, these two operations usually are not to be performed every after every operation. Over here, my purpose is to demonstrate each individual operation. That is why I am waiting for some time and disconnecting. Waiting for some time and disconnecting, okay, but when we write the code, we only. Only disconnect from the TWS at the end of the market hours, okay? At the end of the day, we don't disconnect otherwise. So these two operations are only valid and specific to this lecture. Outside this lecture, you don't do this part, okay? You simply go ahead, you make request and perform some of the operation. Make request and perform another operation. So now, when we perform, when we when we request for current time, what is going to happen? We learned these. We learned that over here, right? So over here we are making a request. The request goes to the server, and the server processes that request, right? So over here, that is what happened. That is what is happening. We are making a request. The request goes to the server, the server processes it, okay, the server processes the request, and then, sir, once the server has completed the processing, the server will send response back to the client via another method, okay, via another method, and that method is defined over here within the class. Okay, so this method, the current defined, sorry. This method current time is the method that will be invoked by the server. I repeat, this method will be invoked by the server and not by our program. You want to find anywhere where you won't find anywhere in the code with which we are calling this method, see no, there is no, there is no line that that is calling this method. This method will be invoked or will be called by the server, okay? And this method takes, has the argument time, which is the time received from the server, okay, which is the time received from the server? And what we do is like, whatever the time that we have received from the server, we convert it to the human readable time, because the server sends time in the epoch or epoch timestamp, okay? So we convert it into human readable format, and then we simply print it. Okay? Then we simply print it. So let me do one thing. Let me go ahead and let me simply run this code, and then we will able to understand it much better. Okay, so I'm running this code. Okay, ignore this part. Okay. This is not the errors. These are just the information. Okay. So over here, what happens? The libraries get imported, the class gets defined, the strategy object gets created, it gets connected, and then it gets checked, is application connected? Yeah, so over here it says, is application connected to the TWS, the answer is true. And then once the application is connected, we go and we make the request using request dot, current time. Sorry, app, dot, request current time we are making the request. And once the request goes to the server, the server processes the request and it sends response back to us, and the response come is handled. The response that we receive from the server is handled by this particular method, current time over here, and that is being that is what is printed over here, right? This is the current time on the server. Okay, so this particular line over here that we see on the console is being printed by this print command, right? So this is what is happening under the hood when we run the run the whole code now over here, these are not errors, actually. These are just informational messages which is telling us, like whether the TWS, which is acting as our server is connected to various data centers or not. So they are just like connection information, information messages for each of the connections. So we simply need to ignore them. Okay. They are actually not any error. Yeah.

Speaker 1  1:59:19  
So this is what is happening over here. So let me go ahead, take some questions, then I will come back, I will explain the remaining part, and then I will ask you questions. Okay, so go, let me open the question panel and see.

Speaker 1  1:59:42  
Okay. So Carlos says that the client ID needs to be unique for every program. There cannot be two programs connected with the same client ID. Oh, okay. I have again the it was some time where I had, I. Ah, ran multiple programs with the same client ID. It it worked, though, however, it was on the older API versions. I believe they might have upgraded in the latest version. I need to check again, it was working in the old API versions without any issue. What is the relevance of delay or time don't slip. No, I'm, as I mentioned, I'm just introducing this delay just to be on the safer side, such that I can demonstrate my examples quite better, so the connection get established and but again, if we can totally avoid these delays, how do you know which method will be called from the server for a particular request? Very good question. And to answer that part, you can do two things. One,

Speaker 1  2:00:59  
go to the class list over here. Okay, IB API and a client. If you click on any of these method, say, for example,

Speaker 1  2:01:16  
calculate option price. Okay, for this particular this is the E client method. Okay, for each of these methods, there will be corresponding e Wrapper method mentioned over here, right? So from the documentation, you can figure out which are the linked methods from the equal from the E wrapper class, right? Arun. So this is how even I do that part. Okay, if I go to this request account summary, so this is the documentation for request account summary. If we scroll down, we will see, what are the E wrapper or corresponding e Wrapper method. See, as I mentioned, like even like for a single e client method, there could be multiple e wrapper methods, and these are the 2e wrapper methods, right? Yeah, we shall say is, what is the use of threading here? I will come to that part. Okay, cool. Thanks, Carlos, could you explain the synchronous, asynchronous operations using API trades. Yeah, we'll come to that part. We'll come to that part. Shrees So actually, okay, I will come to that part once I explain trading. Yes.

Speaker 1  2:02:41  
Manjunath says, Read through the documentation. You can Manjunath, could you? Could you? Could you please elaborate the purpose of this documentation, what it is and what it is not. E Ripper in England is only for this interactive broker. Yes, that is true. Okay, great. So many of you have asked, like, what these trading is doing. Let let us go and let us see how it goes. Aruna, I will come to that part in the few minutes. Okay, great. So, okay, so many of you are asking, what is the use of this threading operation? Okay, let us discuss this part now, see when we were discussing this

Speaker 1  2:03:40  
asynchronous mode of communication. I specifically mentioned that ibapa only uses asynchronous mode of communication. Okay, that is it. It uses, see, okay. Let me explain it this way. Okay. So

Speaker 1  2:04:03  
if we see this part, if this if we see this method over here, we are calling this method right? We are calling this request current time it goes to the TWS. Now we don't know by when the server will complete processing of the request that it received, and by when it is going to call this method, current time. Okay, so we don't have any any of that idea. Now, if we don't have any idea what, what could we what could be done? What could be done in a way, so that we always keep on listening for the responses from the server, Okay, over here, what we do is, over here, we create a connection right now. With this particular connection, we keep on placing the request. We keep on placing the request from the on. A client. Now the way this API is designed, this API says that until you execute this particular function, f, dot, run, okay, until you execute this function, this run function, app, dot, run simply is the run is the function name, until you execute this function, you will not be able to receive responses from the server. Okay, no matter how many requests, hi, have I made to the server, I will not be able to receive responses of any of those methods until I execute this run method over here, okay, however, when I run these, when I execute this run method, it simply starts an infinite loop. It simply starts an infinite loop which will simply keep on listening the responses coming from the server. Okay, I repeat the way this API has been designed. It will not receive any of the responses from the server until we execute this run method. And once we execute the run method, it will start an infinite loop under the hood, which will keep on listening whatever incoming message that comes from the server. Okay, so now say, I make a request, and then I execute the run command, the run function, and it starts an infinite loop. If it starts the infinite loop, I will not be able to run any comma, any of the Python code below that line. Okay, I will not be able to run any of the Python code below that line, because it is an infinite loop, and if I stop that run method, I will not be able to listen to the incoming responses from the server. So what needs to what needs to be done is I need to have two connections with the TWS. I need to have two connections with the TWS. The first connection I use, which is this particular connection which I make over here. I use is to place any request from the client to the server, okay? And then I open another connection. I establish another connection with the TWS, okay, on a separate process, on a separate thread, and on that separate process, I say that you execute this app, dot run method which will always keep on listening data from the server. Okay, so Python, the way Python programming, the way Python language has been designed at any one at any point in time, only one of the task could be performed. Now, if we want to perform multiple tasks, we need to use something known as threading. So threading is a mechanism with which multiple tasks could be executed at the same time. So over here, what we do is we first establish the main connection from the client to the TWS, and then in the another process, we invoke another process using the thread module okay to simply execute the run method on it. So on that particular separate process, the run method will keep on running infinitely. Okay, so what we do here is like trading is a mechanism. Now, again, if someone from the technical background would know that it is much more than the running multiple things. But yeah, to put it simply, threading is a mechanism with which we can perform or which with which the program can perform multiple tasks at the same time. Okay? So we import thread from the threading library, okay? And once we connect, once we establish the main connection, we establish another connection. So we say that thread, like start a new process, or start a new thread. And on the on that new process, you execute the run method, okay, you execute the run method. And that method is the demon process, okay, which means that whenever this main connection gets closed, that additional process should also be closed. Okay, so demon equals to true, and we we say that once this process is created, you simply start the process. Okay? So. This process is nothing but a new connection that keeps on listening data or the response from the server. Simple, right? So, what is thread? Over here threading, we are using the threading mechanism to to open an additional connection from the to open an additional connection between the Python program and the between the Python program and the TWS to keep on listening the responses, so that we cannot, so that the Python access is not blocked, and we could perform multiple operations at any point in time. Okay, so that is the idea over here. Now we will, as we will see, as we will see more examples, you guys will get more clear about what it is and what it is not okay. Now someone says that, what if I go ahead and if I don't have this method on my code, I we can, we could do this. So if I simply comment this out, okay? And if I run my program again, see what is going to happen. Is everything will work fine, okay, this time, the Python program will make the request also. But as we haven't implemented the callback method that the method, the method that the server calls, okay? Is the method is not defined. We won't be able to handle that method. We won't be able to receive the response. Okay? So under the hood, what has happened is the request was made, the server process the request, the server sent response back to us, but our Python program was not capable enough to handle that response, and as a result, the response is not printed, okay, so we need to have the callback method defined in our program in order to handle The incoming responses. Okay, so keep this in mind. Okay. Now, before we head on to the next example, I have two questions for you guys, from which class do you think this connect method comes from? From which class?

Unknown Speaker  2:12:28  
From which class the load connect method comes from.

Speaker 1  2:12:43  
Ajay, yeah, it comes from the strategy, but the strategy class does not have that connect method, right? So it should come either from the E client or the repo.

Speaker 1  2:12:57  
Nicola, you know, yes. So the answer is, it comes from the client, a client class, and why? Because Connect is a request method, right? So we want, we are making a request to the TWS to establish the connection. So the connect method comes from the E client class. Yeah, that's true. So again, whenever you guys are unsure, just think in terms of, like, with what we are doing, are we making a request, or are we receiving the response? Okay. Now this is pretty self answerable, so yeah, this comes from the E wrapper class, right? And this, again, comes from the E client class. Great. Now let me check some questions. Then we will hop on to the next question. Do we implement thread every time we want to give a new request? No, no, no. So thread is not full request, guys, it is, it is, it is a single process to establish a new connection from where we are receiving the responses. So it would only be one, okay, so per program, there would be two connections, one, one using this connect method and another using this run method. Okay. Are these threads equivalent to CPU threads? If you isn't there a limit of number of threads that can be run simultaneously? Yes. So these are the CPU threads actually in on modern computers. Then you can actually spawn like hundreds of threads, right without impacting on the performance issue. So again, to answer your question, Tarun, largely, there won't be any limit as such. Could you explain the trading using the API trading example? Yeah, so I so again. Just give me a moment. It will. It. Will become more clear as we as we request for more data. Can I collect second level B and ask data? Yes, we can. Okay, okay. Manjunath, if you send multiple requests, how do we know which response is coming from which server? So to do that, let us go ahead and let us go

Unknown Speaker  2:15:25  
I see more examples.

Speaker 1  2:15:33  
So Tarun asks that, do we need one thread for each strategy to which Manjunath already answered that from the documentation API programs always at least have two threads of execution, one for sending messages to TWS and another for reading the return message. So let me just copy this and send it to everyone. Thanks. Manjunath, okay, great, coming to next, next example, which is equivalent to loading a financial instrument, right? So once we connect, once we connect to the TWS, the next step that we would want to perform is to load the finance instruments that we would want to trade. Okay, so over here, this is what this particular demo shows. So over here, what we are doing, we are importing the classes E, client, E, wrapper, right trading and time. At the same time, we are importing a new class over here, which is the contract class from APA, IB, APA dot, contract sub module. Now see this contract class is basically a class that handles all the financial instruments, okay? So if we want to work with any financial instrument, we need to create an object of the contract class, and that is what we do over here. So that is also demonstrated over here, like this contract class over here. So we would be creating another object of the contract contract class, and that would manage everything related to the financial instrument. Okay? So as we did with the as we did with the previous example, we are going to create the class strategy, which is a subclass or the child class from the E client and the E repo. Then we initialize them, okay, once we initialize them, we define certain callbacks over here, okay, we define certain callbacks over here. I will come to this callbacks in a moment. And once we define this callbacks, we can go and we can start using the strategy class. First over here, first we create the strategy object, then we connect to the TWS, then we wait for a second for the connection to get established, and then we start a new process or a new thread. Actually, technically, there is a difference between the process and the process and the thread. I am taking a bit leeway over here to and using it interchangeably, but there, there are differences. Okay, so threading, a thread, is not equal to process, so, but again, I am going to take the way. So we are going to start a new process over here, and then we will check whether the application is connected or not, right? This is all good and fine. This is the same, same thing that we did in the previous example. Next what we are going to do, we are going to define the very first financial contract, or the very first financial instrument. So I am going to create the object for the contract class and name it as EU contract, okay? And then I intend to trade for X pair. So I need to define that object like I need to define the financial instrument over here, and I do that by assigning various attributes of that financial instrument. So that is, symbol, currency, security type, exchange. Now, one of the questions is like, where do I find all these information? Like, how do I know, like, if I want to trade Euro, USD pair, like, what is the symbol like, in which currency does it trade? What is the security type? Where do I find all these, all these attributes, and that is where our good old friend of

Speaker 1  2:19:28  
description comes into picture. Okay, so we know that, like there is description window, which we can pull out and we can read all that information from here, okay, and we could use to load the instruments in the in the Python program. Okay, so I have used this particular screen to load the contract. So this is where this is where this is from, where all the information comes from. And once I do that, I am going to get ahead and. I am going to call the contract details. Okay, I'm going to request for the contract details. See now over here, this function requesting contract details. Function requires two arguments. The first argument is the request ID like, Okay, we need to take this request with some ID, okay? It is compulsory, and it could be any integer, number, right? It's not necessary that it like it is. It should start from one, it's it should start from zero. It should start from 100. No, we could give it any request ID, and the same request ID would be returned as a part of the response, so that we know that the response that we receive a belongs to which particular request, okay? And the second argument is the contract that which for which we want to load the details, okay? So if you want to load details, we need to know we need to provide the contract object. Okay, so that is what we need to do. Once I make the request, I go ahead, I stay for 10 seconds, and then I disconnect. Okay, so let me go ahead and let me run this command. Sorry, run this program and see. So again, we know that we need to ignore this part. Okay, this is just the information, information disguised as errors, so we need to ignore that part. Then we know that this is the line that prints whether we are connected to database application or not. So it says true. And then once we make this request, okay, it goes to the server. The server processes it and sends back response to us. And those response come where it comes in the callback methods which are which we use from the E wrapper class. Okay, so this is the callback method that will be called by the server. Okay, so here contact data is the method. Now it has Request ID. Now this is the same request ID which we had provided, and this will be the actual contract details. Okay, this will be the actual contract request. Now, if we are providing a request with the request ID, how do we get to know whether the server has ended sending all the details with with regard to the single request, or is there any more data that the server is going to send with this with request to the same request, with regards to the same request, okay? And so to get the idea, API also gives end methods for certain request, okay, so over here, this is the end method that will be called by the server, that will be invoked by the server once server completes sending all the information with regards to a particular request ID, okay, so once we once this particular method gets executed, We get to know that the server is not going to send any more data with regards to a particular request, okay? So for there are certain operations for which the API also has this end methods, okay? And this end methods simply let us know that the server has completed processing a particular request, and the server is not going to send any more data for that particular request, okay? So this is how we can use it. And now, now coming to the now coming to the output, what we see over here is requested, 201, which is printed by this particular code, okay. And then everything else is the contract details, actual contract details, which are printed by this particular line, okay, so over here, what we see is, this is the contract ID, okay, this is the instrument type. This is the symbol. This is the currency in which it trades, the exchange on which it trades. Okay, and what we see over here, these are the these all are the algorithms that are supported by this particular contract. So we can go ahead and we can use limit algorithm, market algorithm. We could use a good till cancel, good till date, those time conditions, we can also provide Stop stop loss, stop limit trading, stop loss. Okay, and those So again, these are all the attributes that this. Particular contract supports, right? And then it also prints the time zone in which this particular instrument is available to trade. And this is the calendar, and this is the calendar for which during which it is available for trading. Part, okay, once the contract details has been received, we also received something known as the from the end method, which is like Request ID 201, contract, it is ended, right? And it came from over here, this particular method, Request ID contract, it is ended. So after receiving this part, we get to know that, yeah, over here now, server is not going to send any any more data with request to request a 201, right? So in, in that case, if we want to say, once we receive, once we get to know that the this financial instrument info that we are defining is correct, and we are able to receive details from for it, right? We want, we might want to fetch historical data. So over here in the end, method, we could go ahead and we could, like, have these requests for the historical data, right, once we know that the server is not going to send any more data. Which request to the previous request. Okay, so this is how we can use this and methods over here. I am not going to use in this example, but, yeah, I'm just giving you the idea. Now let us go ahead and let us try to see, like, how multiple requests could be made. Okay, so what I'm going to do over here is I'm going to load another contract over here, this time, nifty options, okay? And for that, I would require another contract object, which I am defining here. I am going to make another request, contact details for request to 02, okay. I am going to keep everything else the same. Oh, yeah. I am also at the same time if I want to suppress these errors. Okay, so if these, if, if this is something that I want to suppress, I can simply use the error function. What do I do? I can simply use this error function over here, right? And it simply filters if the request ID is negative one. So this is the request ID, if the request ID is negative one, I simply said, don't do anything else. If there is actual, some genuine error, you print it. Okay, if there is some genuine error, you print it, but if the request ID is negative one, you don't do anything. I don't want it to be printed. So that is what we are doing over here. So let me go ahead now this time, instead of one request, we are going to put two requests, and we'll see how it how it works. Okay, see, so first thing first, we did not receive any of those errors or the messages. Why? Because we have this function in place. These are simply suppressing those errors, okay? Or those messages, to be very specific. Then we made very first request, which is for the EU contract, okay? So we received the response for the EU contract over here, and once the response got ended, the end method was also called, okay. And then we received the response for another request that we made, which is for nifty options, okay, which is for 202 over here. So this is the response for 202 method. And then we also received the confirmation that the server has completed sending all the information, and it is now not good, not not going to send any more information. So this is how we can we could go ahead and we could use these methods from the E client class and the E wrapper class to perform various operations. Okay, great. Now, what if I want, if I, let's say if I go ahead and if I make some genuine error, right? So would genuine error be? Would be shown because I have suppressed those errors here. So what if, like, those genuine errors will be showed or not? So I'm just changing the date now I know this date is incorrect, so I should be receiving the error.

Speaker 1  2:29:34  
Okay? And yes, what happened is, like 201, for Euro, USD, the everything worked. Okay? Everything worked as as it was like, because we did not change anything over there. But for 202, we did receive the error, right? It said that no security definition has been found for the request, which simply means that there is no legitimate financial instrument for the information that you have. Avoided, okay? And I know that because the nifty options expire on the 30th of December instead of 31st so it say that there is no security definition. And this helped me see now is there was an error over here, okay? As there was an error over here for requested 202, it did. It didn't even call this particular method. See, it didn't even call this method, right? And as a result, we know that we don't need to call the chaining operation like, which is like, if we if we might want to call the historical data, we might, it won't be cool. Why? Because there is no correct finance, instrument information, right? Great. So let me go ahead, let me check if there are any questions, and then we can, then we shall proceed further. Okay,

Speaker 1  2:31:03  
is idle pro force for is a CFD platform, I don't know, but idle Pro is basically used for all currency. Is an exchange for all currencies on the Interactive Brokers. So again, I don't trade Forex, but I do know that for any currencies, the exchange is idle. Pro, how to code API trades for USD INR on NSE currency exchange. So nothing changes, right? So everything, all these, whatever things that we are discussing, it is applicable to all instruments. So there is no any instrument specific API trades that everything is applicable to all the instruments. How many trades Did you execute for eurosd on the ideal exchange using No, as I mentioned, I don't, no, no, no, no, no. So it doesn't mean that I generated 200 request IDs. This is just a number. Okay. I could provide 201201201 through all the request ID it would still work, okay, but it is not recommended. So when you, when you go ahead and when you create your algorithm, you need to have a mechanism that will increase your request ID by one every time you make a request, so that you get, you get to know, like in what request, what response you got from the server, and if anything went wrong in which request it went wrong. Okay, okay. So someone is asking a little off topic, is trading Forex legal in India? So it is kind of, I would say it's a it's a debatable topic. It is. It falls under the gray area. So many people, many practitioners even out of the opinion that it it is legal. Many says it is not. So I So, I would say that it falls under the gray area. People who engage into forex trading in India need to be very, very, very cautious. Okay, so Zubin says that it is not legal under FEMA rules, but can trade currency futures. Okay, great, cool. So before we hop on to the next question. Let me Okay, so, are we clear until until this point for whatever topic that we have discussed now? If yes, can you please press one else put in your question. If, we are clear, until now for whatever we discussed, please press one else put in your question.

Speaker 1  2:34:14  
Okay, I am waiting. I am waiting. I am waiting for your responses. Great, so I don't see a question. And if that is the case, let us go ahead and let us open to the next demonstration. In the next demonstration, we are going to go ahead and we are going to fetch historical data. So by now, you guys would have known that to work with. Yeah, okay, so this is also one of the questions. So yes, in order to run this Python program, we need. To have this TWS open at the all the time. That is one thing. So ideally, I would have the opinion that when you are in the development phase, you use this TWS application, and once you have completely coded your strategy and you you know how to like, everything works fine. You can switch to IB gateway. Okay, so IB gateway is very small, and, no, I don't have installed on my machine right now, but IB gateway is a very small, lightweight and UI less application. Okay, that you can simply execute to enter your credentials. That's it. Okay. On IB gateway, you can only see which applications are connected to the Gateway, but it won't show you anything, literally anything. It's just a simple, a single notification, kind of a application which lets you connect your Python program. That's it. Okay. So once you, while you are in the development phase, use TWS, then you can move on to the IB gateway. Yes, that's true.

Unknown Speaker  2:36:19  
So someone says, I know IB gateway does not have demo account.

Speaker 1  2:36:28  
Someone says, A download link for this application is throwing four or four. Could you for which application IB gateway

Unknown Speaker  2:36:59  
I don't think so it should happen.

Unknown Speaker  2:37:12  
I think So wait, just wait a minute.

Unknown Speaker  2:37:20  
Yeah, here it is, download IB gateway, you could download here. Here it you Here you go.

Unknown Speaker  2:37:45  
Okay, I'll check that part. I'll check that. Thanks.

Speaker 1  2:37:51  
Joshua, okay, great. Let's go back to the Python code. So in this example, we are going to demonstrate how could we download historical data? So for most technical analysis based or technical indicator based applications, we need to have historical data to calculate indicators or to calculate statistical indicators. What not so this is where it comes handy. What we are going to do is we are going to import all the required classes. Now we know all all these classes that we have listed over here. The new ones are pandas and the warning. So warnings are simply to ignore any warning that pandas might generate, and pandas are the very good old friend to handle any kind of data. Okay. Then next, what we do is we go ahead and we define the class strategy. We then initialize the strategy class, initialize the parent class, over here and over here. I am also going to define two data structures to handle the incoming bars or the incoming candles. Okay, I will come to these two functions later. Let us go ahead here and create these app object connect to the TWS, wait for a second for the connection to get established. Then we go ahead and we open a new thread wherein we are going to execute the run method to handle all the incoming messages from the server, okay, and then we are going to print whether the Python program is connected to TWS or not. Once we do that, we are going to define a contract, and we are taking, or we are assuming over here that these information to load the contract is correct, okay, ideally, before once, once we load the once we define the contract, we shall go ahead and we shall fetch the details. But I am skipping that part. Over here, because we already learned that part just a few minutes ago. And I'm directly going for downloading the historical data. Okay, so what I'm providing over here is I'm saying that, okay, app dot request historical data. See, I'm requesting for the historical data over here that this is a method. This method takes few arguments. The first argument is the request ID. It could be any number, okay, then we have, then we need to provide the contract for which we want the historical data. We also need to provide for how long we do? We need to help the do? We need to get the data. So we are saying that, okay for Euro USD contract, provide me five days worth of data and when those when those five days end. So I say that those five days end on 14th, December, 2025, okay, so I'm prodding the duration I'm saying, I'm saying that I want Euro USD data for five days ending on 14th, December, 2024 Okay, and then I also need to provide the candle size setting that, okay, how long my candle size should be? So I am saying that my candle size should be one minute long, and the rest of the are the other default parameters. So these are basically used while you have strategy in your place. So it says, like, okay, the open, Low, Close prices should be calculated using the midpoint of the bid and ask, okay, once you complete providing the data you should keep on providing me the real time candles as well. So use rth simply means that use real time handling. So we said true, which means like you need to keep, you need to keep providing me real time candles as well, okay? And those real time candles will be handled by these callback methods that we that we define in the strategy class, okay? And then again, these are the very Yeah, these are the default parameters. And you guys know, we simply sleep for 30 seconds and we then disconnect the application. Okay. So over here we have two callback methods, historical data. So this historical data method is a method that will be called for each candle or each bar, okay, so for each bar, the server will send data to us bar by bar. It won't send data for all those five days together. It will be sending data for each candle to us. We need to keep, we need to handle. Each candle is as it comes to us. Okay? So what we are doing over here is like we are extracting the open and close prices from incoming bars or the incoming candles, and then we are adding it to a list. Okay, we are simply, we simply keep adding incoming candles to a list. And once we know that, once this particular method is called, which is the historical data and method which will be invoked by the server. So when the server invokes this method, saying that I have completed sending all the candles to you, now you can go ahead and you can start processing your candles the way you like it. So when the server invokes this method, I get to know that the server is not going to send any more candle for this particular request. So all I can do is I can go ahead. I can convert that list of candles into a Python data frame, okay. I can convert that list of candles into pandas data frame. Okay? And once I do that, I am going to print the head of the data frame, and I can also export the data frame to a CSV CSV file, right? So this is what we do. So let me go ahead and let me run this, and we'll see how it works.

Speaker 1  2:44:26  
See, so we Okay, whatever. What happened over here is like we got all those candles so frequently that it appeared to come at the to come at the same time. But that was not the case. We received these candles one by one. And then we printed the head of the data frame over here. And if we go to the folder over here to codes, we will see see the time. The time is 6:49pm, and we got all the historical candles over here in the data frame on the IN THE. CSV file, right? So this is the data that we got for the last five days, right? So this is how we can, we can use the IB APA to fetch historical data. Great. Any questions, anyone?

Speaker 1  2:45:26  
Are you fetching average price of one meter? H, no, no, I am not fetching your average price. I am fetching open, a high, open, high, low close price. But like again, how do these open and close prices are computed? Right? So this open price is computed at the is the mid price of the bid and ask at the opening time of the candle, right? Suresh, so that is what we are doing over here. Now there are many methods like you can you can provide like first last. There are many there are many options. You can go through the documentation and it will tell you, Okay, great. Moving on to the next, next part, which is to fetch live data or the streaming data. Okay, so these, the previous example was for the historical data. The next example is for, is to fetch the live data or the streaming data. So over here, now I'm going to take some leeway, because the way the codes are structured is very similar. So I'm going to import the necessary classes, create the strategy class, initialize them, define the look callback method, okay? And once I define the class, I'm going to go ahead and create the app object, connect to the TWS, wait for a second or for the connection to get established, open another thread to receive the responses, and then I'm going to check for the connection. Now, once I, once the connections are established, I am going to go ahead and define the object, the financial object. So this time, I am going to take the bitcoin is an object as a financial instrument, and then I am going to request for the market data. Okay, so the code for the market data starts from here. So we are saying that f dot request market data. The Request ID is 150 the contract ID is contract, the Bitcoin contract. And then I'm going to keep everything is same, okay? And in the over here, in this, in the strategy class, we have this tick price, which is the callback method to handle the incoming data. Okay, so it simply goes ahead, it it so it shows that for which Request ID, the data is incoming. What is the tick type, what is the price, and that's it. Okay, so let us go ahead. Let us go ahead and let's see, see how it happens. Okay, so we see that the application got connected. Okay, the market data is also connected to us crypto, so they it is nice. And see, these are the live prices. These are the real time prices for the Bitcoin that we are getting. Okay, so tick type four means what? So tick tock four means last price. Okay, I have not written it over here, but this tic tac four means last price. One means the current, like the current bid price and the ask price. The six means the days high and low. Six and seven and nine means the day like yesterday's close price. So what we are receiving over here, these are the live tick prices that we are receiving on the from the pexos exchange via IB on our terminal. Okay, so now, when you design your applications, you usually would have, you usually would be subscribing to some kind of data in the in the in the live for the live prices. So you need to have these, you need to have this multiple connection established all the time, right? So, because we don't know when these prices are going to come in, so if we only have one connection, which is this one, the purpose won't be sold, right? So we need to have this threading in place, because this threading will keep on receiving the incoming information, and at the same time, if you want to place another request to place the order based on this data, we could go ahead and we could place it right. Great. So let me go ahead and let me stop this. Before we stop this, let me take question. I.

Speaker 1  2:50:03  
No so when you say, nse, data is free, that's true. But why to subscribe data? When we say subscribing data, I am like calling this function, so we need to subscribe. So again, like when we run our program, how do server get to know or how do broker get to know? Like, which data do we want? So we need to subscribe to that data right from our program. Program. That is what I meant. Okay, great. Coming to the last example, which is the IB API place order. Okay, so let it run. Let me open new table here, new console over here. Okay, so over here, the idea removes the same the only thing that changes is the introduction of this new class, which is the order class, okay, so this order class over here helps us handle all the order related functions or order related operations, right? So we start by importing all these classes. We define the strategy class, we initialize it, then we place in some of the callback functions which are related to the orders. Okay? So that is what we do over here, one then we go ahead, we create the app object. We connect to the TWS, we open another connection, and we simply check it, okay. Next, what we do is we define the object over here, the instrument in which we want to trade, right instrument which we want to trade. And then we also need to define the order object, like, what kind of order do we need to send? Do we need to send buy orders as order, what quantity, at what price, what is the order type? And all those things need to be mentioned over here. Once we do this, we can go ahead and we can use the place order function with order ID, contract and order, and that's it. It would be able to place the order, right? So once, once it does that, we will get notifications whenever the open the order get opens, the order status changes, and whenever we whenever we get the fields. Okay, so these are the three different callback methods that we might get depending on the order, life, life cycle. Okay, so let me go ahead and let me run this so Okay, so we see that it is not connected, and why it is not connected. So probably Carlos is correct here because we provided the client ID one and one over here as well, and this is also running. So probably yes, Carlos is correct. So let me go ahead and let me just change client ID to something else, and let's see if this works this time. Yeah, it worked this time, right? Yeah. Thanks, Carlos, you are correct. It is not working in any in this new API wasn't anymore Perfect. Thanks for the information. Okay, so we see that we got the confirmation about, like, by two shares of the Cs, and it's, it is saying that your order will be placed on the exchange when the exchange open next time, on this date at this time. So we say, Okay, right? And over here we also see that the same information, okay, like the order will not be placed on the exchange until this time, which is which is pretty much okay, right? And then we got the status for the when the order opened and when the order status changed, right? So this is what we got over here, and we could also confirm it from the TWS. So we go, if we go here, we see in over here, in TWS, we also see the same order given over here, right? So two shares to buy for TCS at the market price, right? And it will be, if I close this, it will stay, it is and it will be executed the next time the market opens, right? So this is how we can use TWS API to automate the operations. So, and that is what our The goal was, right? So when we started this lecture, we said that we want to come up with a Python script that could automate all the operations that we perform here, that we perform on this particular trading terminal. And yes, we saw that how, by leveraging the API provided by the interactive broker, and how, by structuring these codes in the classes, we could go ahead. We could per. From all these trading operations so that we could automate our trading strategy. So this was the end goal. We did achieve the goal and but what we did not do over here is like we did not come up with the what we did instead is like we saw all these operations in isolations. So now, how do you merge all these operations, like, how do you create a single file that helps you automate the whole flow? And to do that, I have provided you. I have provided you a demo strategy. Okay, over here it, you should be able to find it on your LMS. This demo strategy is basically a combination of all the trading operations that we just learned. Okay, so again, it follows the same approach, a similar approach, not the same, but the similar approach wherein creates the strategy class, it, it, it goes the initialization method. It, it defines all the callback functions it does like like in the same class. And then there is functions like compute indicators, generate signals, okay, and to place orders, to fetch positions. And then there are, then we go ahead, and then we simply connect to the strategies, connect to the run method, and then we go ahead and we run the strategy. We download historical data, and we every five meter, whatever time duration that you configure, it will be, go ahead and it will execute the strategy. So over here it is for one minute, so it will execute the strategy during that part. So this is one thing. And in addition to this, in the in the upcoming weeks, you are going to get a multi part, multi part tutorial, access to an access to the multi, multi part tutorials wherein I take you, take you through this whole process. Okay, now once you have the understanding of how each of these, once you have the once you have understanding of each each of these individual concepts, if you want to combine all of them, how can you do and how what should be your thought process? So I take you through all that, like mental process and all that, through all that part in the multi part tutorial series, which you guys will get access to in the upcoming week. So, but before you go through that part, I highly encourage you that you understand the concepts covered in this class, because those tutorials are built on concepts that we covered here. If your concepts are quite weak, if you guys have challenges, it is good to get them cleared. It is good that you go through this class again and then you go through that tutorial, so that you guys will get to know how everything should be used together. Okay, yeah, so that's the that's the overall idea. So let me just go through questions, if not that, we can call it a day. Can we, can we also get the order book data from this? What do you mean by the order book data? What happens if we disconnect due to some reason for the orders we placed? So again, you Manjunath, you can simply keep checking with this function on every iteration of your strategy, right? If this is true, then you, then you execute the strategy. Else.as, you basically try to reconnect. Is it possible to paper trade using FPA, two, yeah, one, see it is so again, what we are doing was paper trading only. I'm I actually placed this order on the paper trading account only. Should we run this demo strategy between 915, 330, on NSE, ideally on NSE, yes, that is only the time you can trade. We didn't ask where. Yeah, you can, you can get within us. Crisis is IB platform used for HFT. No, not at all. It is used for MFT and lft. For HFT, they have another platform, which is the fixed API, but and that is only available for the institutions, not the edited public.

Speaker 1  2:59:40  
Since I am not from the tech background, I don't remember the course, but understood the logic. So again, this is for literally everyone, okay, not even you and me, but it belongs to it is applicable to literally everyone. Even when I was teaching this to my wife, like no one really needs to and Like. Remember the codes. The codes could change anytime, right? So again, it is, it is very similar to how we learn math, right? So when we are learning mathematics, we understand the concepts, like, what addition is, what multiplication is. We don't memorize the sum. We don't memorize the examples, right? We don't say, like, Okay, five times five, this we but we understand the concepts, and that is very much true for the codes as well. Okay, you'd understand what the code is doing. The syntax will come on its own, okay? But if you don't understand the logic, you would be able to do nothing. So if your logic is correct, you just need to understand the syntax, how to write the how to write particular code, right? So programming is a two part thing, logic, the syntax. Logic is 80% syntax is 20% so never remember the codes. Don't memorize it. It will change every now and then. Okay, so, yeah, that's my take on it. I hope you will be covering in the subsequent classes on how to run these scripts on the AWS. So there would be another tutorial for AWS and for blue shift. It would be a separate, separate class. Okay, cool. Thank you so very much, guys for attending this class. I will see you in the next part of this tutorial very soon. I hope you guys did get what like, what was the idea of this class? And I bid you good. Well, bye, and please don't forget to fill the feedback form. Thank you guys. Bye.

