Speaker 1  0:01  
Hello everyone. Welcome to this session on exchange shared funds. Firstly, very happy new year to all of you. In the next three hours that we will be engaging with you before, I'm sure you would have downloaded a slide deck as well as an Excel document that has been sent across. But a rough guideline for the next three hours would be this, we'll be spending the first 90 minutes on various aspects of exchange, trade funds, mostly on the primary market side. Then we'll have a 15 minute break, and then the second session would be on the secondary market side of ETFs, as well as we will talk about certain aspects of ETF markets, in terms of size, in terms of numbers, as well as we look at a few trading models. So the idea is, this session, as you can imagine, is not is going to be a breath heavy session. It's not going to there are no prerequisites for this session. Over the years, I've seen a participants from various walks of life, in terms of various domains, who have participated and who have grown as algo traders. So the point of this session is to start from scratch, meaning even if you have absolutely no markets experience, that's fine. We will be starting from the very beginning of what is an index, and then we'll walk through various aspects of ETFs. However, having said that, if you're if you're already of markets practitioner, if you have a lot of years of experience, kindly bear with me, because there will be certain sections where you will find find relevant content for that appeals to you. So having said that, before we begin a background about me, I have been in financial market for the last 25 years, and specifically in the ETFs. I have spent about a decade working in Goldman Sachs as a portfolio manager, and right now I work as work and run shop exchange. So whatever I'm going to share is from my work experience. It's not going to be theoretical. It's going to be essentially from my own experience of actually running a portfolio, running an ETF book, also looking at what how this space is exploding. As you all know, this space has explored massively in the last 10 years or so. So before we begin a map of how we are going to go over the next three hours, first we will talk about what cap weighted indices are, my request to you is whenever there are some certain pop questions in the during the session. So my request is not to look at the slides as we go along, meaning there are certain questions which I'll be asking you, and probably you'll have to work them through work. Work it on Excel or any notepad or any any of your it's not, it's going to be low tech. It's not going to have you don't need any programming experience to work through these problems. Having said that, my request is to not look at the slides as we go along, because there'll be some questions I I would, I would be asking those questions, and you'll be responding to those questions. Okay? So having said that then the next three hours, this is how we're going to engage first would be we'll start with the from the very beginning, meaning what a cap weighted index is, because ultimately, ETFs are

Speaker 1  3:32  
instrument based on indices of some sort. We beat a Public Index, or let's say, private index, constructed by a company. Then we look at fund structures, and then we look at a brief overview of mutual funds. That the idea of talking about mutual funds is mostly to make sure that you can contrast that with how an ETF works, because mutual funds, by itself, vast topic, but from our perspective, we will only be looking at certain aspects of mutual funds that will help us understand what primary Mark, what ETF, is. So then we'll also talk about primary market I mean, this is something which probably, if you ask me, 90 out of 100 investors do not have access to this is, this is where the hfts algo trader, systematic traders, market makers play. So this, this, this understanding of what primary market is. How do you deal with primary market? What are the transactions that happen? Is very, very important, especially for the audience that we have today, meaning we are all aspiring algo traders, HFT traders. So this, this, this space, would be very useful to you. So this would be the first part of our session. The second part of our session will cover what's about, secondary markets, about industry metrics. I'll be talking about certain industry characteristics. And then we'll also talk about trading models. So that's how the next three are going to be. As usual, if you since you have already, already, you know the platform, kindly ask any questions as we go along. Either I'll respond on this at the right point in time if I think it's coming up, meaning the few subsequent slides to talk about that, I'll probably park your question and answer at that point in time. Or if it requires an elaborate response, I'll probably respond offline. So that's how it's this session is going to be. So coming back to the first section, in this first part, we'll talk about CAP weighted indices. Now, Cap weighted indices, as you know, are most of the popular indices in the world are cap weighted. Sensex, nifty, SNP, NASDAQ, you name it, most of these indices are cap weighted. Now, at a high level, what is a cap weighted index? So imagine that there are just two stocks in an index, and let's say there are two stocks, and let's say the first stock, the stock price is $100 the second stock price is $25 and outstanding shares are 50,000 50,000 and 100,000 so if you look at the total market value of these two stocks, it's price time shares. And if you add up these, add up the market value of these two shares, 5 million plus 2.5 7.5 now an index provider who is constructing this index, and as an index provider, it's a company which something like an MSCI or FTSE Russell, these are all big index providers. So the job is to create indices. So when such companies start an index? So for example, you are in charge of, let's say, create an index you would look at, let's say if, hypothetically, there are only two stocks, imagine now you would not want to start with something like 7.5 million to start with at Day Zero. You would want to normalize it, make it a smaller value to begin with. It could be 100, it could be 1000, it could be 500 whatever it is. You would want to normalize this value to a smaller value to begin So, that is where you have many tools. Index. Construction companies have many tools. One of the tools they use is a concept of divisor, where you take the total market value, you divide by this number, and you say, This is my start of index. Okay, now there are many tools. I have shared a sample document from SNP which gives which is about 20 to 25 pages, which will give you an idea of what all tools do. You know, index construction companies have, and that's a sample every, every index is different, every but the available tools are pretty much common across many index providers. So what we will do right now is, you know, we'll just look at one of the questions that's on the slide. What I'll be asking you is, given the situation, this is, let's say this is t minus one. Let's say yesterday is a trading day and today is also a trading day. For example, now there are, let's say there are two stocks in the index, x1 x2 and the index at the beginning is 1000.

Speaker 1  8:28  
Now on T, which is today, there is a two for one split, meaning for every one share of x1 there are two shares of x1 given to the shareholders. Okay. Now, intuitively, even if you don't have any understanding of how index construction works and what would happen. I would want you to take a guess on two things, meaning, when the when you are disseminating an index you are then think of yourself as index work. So t minus one. This is the this is how the market is today, assuming the market has not moved, the only difference is one of the stocks, there is a split. There are two shares, one for every one share of x1, two shares of x1, are given the shares. Now my question to you is, will the index change true or false, and will the divisor change true or false. So just give me an answer based on your understanding, just a Boolean pair

Speaker 1  9:31  
on what your understanding is about this. So just to repeat, the only thing that's going to hit this index is a corporate action. You

Speaker 1  9:59  
which is two for one speed. It. So let me just wait for some of your answers. Again, I request not to change, not to open your slides, because most some of these answers might be given in the slide. The best, better way is to approach these questions without looking so that it will stick. So I see some of your answers.

Speaker 1  10:32  
No change divisor. Changes index, no change divisor, no change I think most of you are saying, most of you are saying it's false. False. I think, yes, as I, as I scroll down your answers, yeah, I think, in a nutshell, I think you, most of you, have got it, which is when a particular company announces a stock split. So of course, the number of shares in this case doubles because there's a stock split where, you know two for one stock split. So 50,000 shares become 500,000 immediately, you know the fair value of this stock house. I mean, technically, this is how it should happen. This might not happen because of market microstructure and other things, but at a high level, this is probably, this is how, generally, the markets work, wherein, if a stock is given the stock that happens immediately, the price, price immediately, is reflected in terms of how many shares there. So most of you have got it right, which is the total market value of each of the stocks, let's say, at the beginning of the day, doesn't change. It's only the number of shares that are changing. So your total market value doesn't change. So as an index provider, you would, you would rationally think the situation and say, Look, nothing has happened once company has given two for one split, which means your index, you would definitely, since the total market value has not changed, you will continue with the same index and the divider. So in this case, the index remains the same, the divisor remains the same, zero, none of them change in that sense, okay, compared to T minus one to t. Now, again, I'll ask you a few more questions just to, just to complete this discussion here, another corporate action is this. My question remains the same. This is t minus one. This is T. What is happening on T? $2 are given as a dividend. $2 for one share of x1 this is, this is an announcement from the company, from management of the management of x1 company. Okay, now my question to you remains the same, which is, if you are the index company, index construction company, will the index change and will the divisor change? This thing for a few seconds, and maybe answer this question? Will the index change? The divisor change? And if so, I just answer Boolean If it's yes, yes, yes, no, no, yes, no, no, only for combination.

Speaker 1  13:41  
So I see that answers in this for this question are slightly scattered in terms of the four four combinations. So let's, let's look at this question again. The idea is to just barely understand how you would if you were a construction company, index construction company. How would you construct? So if you look at what's happening in this case, $2 are given as a dividend, which means automatically the price gets reflected, because it's a fair, fair value of the stock you're giving away this $2 is given away as dividend, so automatically the price sort of gets reflected by that again. What is it? 98 it is 98.4 9999 so that is debatable, but at a high level, you can, you can say that if you're given $2 that will get it immediately reflected in the stock price. So one thing that is different from in this case is your total market value is changing. Because your price is changing, the shares are constant, so your total market value is changing. But from your perspective, when I say you, you are the index provider, you would look at the situation and say, Look what has happened. A company has decided to give the. Wouldn't would that warrant an index change? Probably not. So you would keep the index same, and then you would say, Okay, if my index is supposed to be the same, how would I normalize this, this value? How do I divide 7.4 million? 10 point 4 million divided by what is 1000, because you choose to keep the index same. So that's where the divisor comes device that becomes 2400 so in that sense, what we are looking at is a way to way to adjust or play with divisor. Now, all all the while, we are playing only with one tool, minding, we are only playing with device. There are multiple tools, but I don't want to get into too many details of all those things and distract us. Now, one last question before we move on, just to complete this discussion, which is same question. This is, again, a very common feature of of an index. One of the company goes out of the index, another company comes out of comes into the index. So imagine this is t minus one. This is T yesterday was trading day. Today is trading day. What has happened is, as of today, x2 is going out. X2 is going out of the index, and a new entrant, x3 is coming in. And for that, you have the price, you have the shares. So what I want you to do is quickly the question remains the same, will the index change, or will the and will the divisor change? I mean, given the pattern of where we are going, I think this should be very obvious by now for you, for you all, but let me see some of the answers. Will the index change? Yes or No? Will the divisor change? Yes or no? Again, think about if you have to see. The key is to understand what will happen to my new market value. So yesterday, it was 7.5 million. What is today's market value? Because ultimately, your market value will

Speaker 1  17:13  
decide what you will do in terms of playing with your device. So I see some of the answers as No, yes, yes, no, yes, yes, no, no. I mean again, there are all over the place, I guess. But let's look at again, just to quickly

Speaker 1  17:39  
close this discussion, as we Can imagine on T when this x2 goes away. So

Speaker 1  18:40  
you have a new entrant x3 and you Have the stock price is 50 And 200,000 out shares.

Speaker 1  19:21  
So automatically, just because of this index change. Index can change because of many reasons. Maybe there are certain rules.

Speaker 1  20:41  
Why a stock gets in an index? Maybe there are certain maybe there is a acquisition, maybe it has gone bankrupt. There's many reasons why a second

Speaker 1  22:20  
certain index constituent changes. Now that doesn't mean, let's say you're in this case, you're

Speaker 1  23:45  
your total market value has jumped 15 million so as an index provider, would you consider changing index? Would you double

Speaker 1  24:09  
No, of course not, because it's just it's an index where one constant is coming in, another constant is going out, one of the stocks is going out, one of the stock is coming in. So you would choose to probably keep the same index. So your divisor now from 7500 becomes 15,000 now this is these are some of the reasons. These are some of the cases where

Speaker 1  24:40  
index is not changing, so I have just mentioned the reasons where index you might not want to change. The.

Speaker 1  25:21  
Index, okay. Now there are situations where you would want to change the index. For example, if it is a dividend reinvested index, there are certain indices where dividend is reinvested. So automatically, when, let's say, a stock gives index and the dividend is reinvested in that index, you would probably want to change certain certain aspects of the portfolio. Okay. Again, we'll get into this once we get into the discussion of ETF. But at a high level, these three examples, I've just taken three examples right before I there's one question, stock, stock prices fluctuate daily. Does that mean daily, index and divisor is changing? See, that's a good question. So one of the common questions that we have is, okay, you're saying that. You know, divisor keeps changing. So Is it is it real time? Is it real time? Is changing, or is it like every five minutes device that is changing? The answer to that is, is you usually a day? So at the beginning of, let's say, trading day, the index provider will typically. So again, some of these corporate actions are reflected and mentioned Much, much in advance. So for example, let me give a simple example. Let's say I have a I have a index of 50 stocks. Now one of these stocks is going out of the index, and another stock is coming into the index. Now this aspect is not communicated there is known to the market much well in advance that the index provider will make sure that market participants know this well in advance. So let's say if it happens at t already, at maybe t minus 14 days, t minus 25 days, it could be whatever this could this window. Could be anything. They give much. They give lot of this information much in advance, so that this nobody wakes up one day and finds out that look, one of the portfolio, one of the stock, is going out, then they'll have to run helter skelter to actually, you know, do a lot of rebalances. Again, we'll get it to rebalancing year 28, years. But I'm saying from a perspective of when, when this change is going to hit a particular index. This is known well in advance. That's number one. Number two. Will the divisor keep changing every now and then? Of course, so depending upon corporate actions like so if you go back to the slide, this is where I just wanted to talk about various I've given just, you know, about half a dozen corporate action, but there could be easily close to 40 to 50 different corporate actions. Now imagine, let's say you are building a 500 index stock. Okay, what is the probability that on a given day there will be some corporate action for one of these stocks. Very high, high likelihood, right? So this, this means that whenever stocks, whenever such events happen on the day, so on the day, let's say t minus one and t so on T there could be several Corporate Actions hitting the index now, since the index is disseminated once in the morning. So this, when I say, disseminated, the constraints, the weightages, the you know, all of this done at the beginning of the day. Okay, by index provider. So as an index provider, your job is not to, I mean, you can update an index real time, but this calculation of divisors and all of this will happen usually once a day. It won't happen real time, because if you think about it, these are not happening. You know, these are happening at a certain point in time, certain date. So it's very is known in advance, so suddenly a company will not decide to give dividends. The next day is going to announce a date. There will be a date when the dividends are given, there will be a date when stock split is done. So all of these are events that are known in advance, which means that come the index providers have enough time to let the participants know what's going to change in the index. Okay, then so again, the reason why I've spent some time on this is you must understand this, that if you are an index provider, there is a ton of work. There's a ton of work to be done to figure out, okay, what is, what is the stock? What is the car? Production, which of the stocks is getting affected? How would you change the device, and so on and so. So there is a massive demand for doing this work. So in in India's case, you know, there's a company called ISL, is an NSE subsidy, which come, which does this index service and maintenance. But across the world, there are many index providers. I mean, some of them are MSCI,

Speaker 1  30:21  
Bootsy Russell. These are the big biggies, meaning these, these companies come up with the indices, and these are they make a ton of money. How do they make a ton of money? Anybody who subscribes to this indices, they have to pay money. Now imagine, let's say again, it's not an easy job to create just an index and just, you know, and start making money. So these companies are not managing any money. Their only job is to create index. And there are many companies which subscribe to this index and create investment banks. Okay, so we'll get to why, how and how an ETF provider uses this index. But at a high level, I want you all to have a one solid takeaway, which is, every ETF that you can think of has is, is essentially trading, is essentially representing an index at the back end, so it tries to mirror the performance of an index. And who creates this index? As I said, there are all these index construction companies, and they have, they have become super powerful today. Very, very powerful. Because imagine, just to give an example, if, if, if MSCI decides to remove a country from its let's say, an index, Emerging Market Index, for example, suddenly all the asset managers will remove money from that specific country, because that's how the index works. So these actions are soup have become supremely important in today's world. So in one sense, index providers are really powerful today. These are not the usual back office admin guys who are just trying to create an index. No, these guys are super powerful. Okay, so that's the first part. Okay, now we'll move I'm sure if some of you already know about index construction, you know about Cafe index, please pardon me, because there are certain things which I think will be useful when we start from scratch. Next, let's look at fund structures again. I'm not going to give a full fledged session on fund structures. Our idea would be to have a overview of what fund structures are. And then we'll specifically look at, let's say, the mutual funds and ETFs in this space, the first type of collective investment vehicles. Why? Why are they called collective investment vehicles? Of course, the word itself, the phrase itself, gives you a cue where you are collecting investment from a group of people, from a group of investments, and then you're investing on their behalf. And you, you would, you typically collect fee for whatever the performance you give to the to the investors. So that's, that's the basic, you know, at a high level, collective investment vehicles. Means, the phrase itself means that now, in that there are several classifications, several types of funds, and we'll only look at few of them just to begin with. Again, in the 10,000 over, feet over, we also will look at only few of them, not all. First is open ended funds. Open Ended funds is, you know, where the reason why it's called an open ended fund, like a mutual fund, most of the mutual funds are open funds. What do? What do? What do we mean by open ended funds? It's not like a stock where, you know, one of the companies goes, you know, goes public, and it has an IPO, and certain shares are allotted to the public and they trade in the secondary market. That's not how, as you all know, most of you, mutual funds don't operate that way. Mutual funds is where you you can, you can approach a mutual fund and you can, you can, you can put in an investment and you'll get back units. Mutual fund units, which means the number of units, number of units for a particular scheme, is always changing based on your redemptions and creations on any given day. So in that sense, that's the reason why these are these companies, these funds are called open ended funds. The number of units is open. And it's not like a constant. It's not like an company goes from IPO and there are certain number of units of stocks that are available to be traded. It's a constant game of subscriptions and redemptions, and most of these, most of these funds, don't have secondary market, meaning you can't typically buy a mutual fund and then start trading these units on a secondary market. So that's typically not the case. So. And as you know, these are, this is a completely AEM game. Why do I call it am game? The more am you have. When I say you, if you are 100 fund manager, the more you can attract, the more marketing muscle you have to push your product. It's like a and after a point in time, the story factor becomes very strong. And this, I think this was mostly

Speaker 1  35:23  
valid maybe 10 to 15 years ago, where they would, you look at one star Fund Manager, Portfolio Manager, and all the company, all the marketing would revolve around him or her, who would have beaten the markets for X X number of years. But into the in today's world, I think this is going away. It's more of, more of pods, more of, you know, more of, less of story factor, and more of strategies and so on and so forth that are being pushed. So this is less of a of a feature now. So second is disclosure and funds. The closure and funds are where, you know, the company decides, Okay, there's a fund which one decides to open up its collective investment vehicle for for investors. And investors come in, they get, they get a lot of the fixed units, and that's it. It stops. So you can't go every day and say, Okay, I want to buy I want to sell this shares, I want to sell the units. I want to buy units. That's it doesn't happen anymore. You just have once at one point in time, there is a subscription, and that's it. You can only redeem when

Speaker 1  36:35  
the fund is kind of closed. Okay, now, what is the feature of this? The feature of these are typically, there is a there is A trading the secondary market. When is when I say,

Speaker 1  37:08  
trading the secondary market. So imagine this situation where we are talking about, let's say you have a

Speaker 1  37:32  
closed ended fund, and you put in your dollars, and Let's say you get an you get units. You can never go back to the fund, sort of, in terms of reading you can, you can probably wait until this gets, this gets actually bankrupt, or whatever, it gets closed, and then probably you can get back your money. But these units you can trade in the secondary market. One thing I want you to probably, you know, have pay attention is there is no connection between what the price happens, how the price moves here and how the price moves here, because this is price done and dusted, and it's like based on more, there is no way in which you can, you can control these two prices. So that's one of the reasons why you'll see you will see that your, let's say your closed ended fund, your nav which is net asset value? What is net asset value? Let's say the total dollars collected by the investment vehicle by the number of units. Okay, at a high level, this is an NAV of a fund, total dollars by number of units. Now this can drastically differ from how

Speaker 1  38:57  
it's trading the secondary market, and this is the common feature of many, many closed unit funds, where there is a massive gap and you really can't arbitrage away because there's no mechanism to arbitrage. Now the other kinds of investment vehicles are unit Investment Trust, exchange rate funds and hedge funds. So again, there are other vehicles, also private credit, hedge funds, real estate fund. I mean real estate funds. I mean, there

Speaker 1  39:27  
are all kinds of classifications, but this is one classification at a high level because

Speaker 1  39:45  
this classification itself. I mean, if you get into the weeds, there are, I mean, this classification itself can be emerging. You can slice and dice by emerging market, slice and category and so on and so forth. But let's stick to.

Speaker 1  40:26  
This. Now, why? I have spent couple of minutes, you know, talking about all of this. Why? Means one you need to have some idea of, okay, these ETF. ETF, at the end of it, is sort of collective investment vehicle. They're collecting money from investors, and they're investing now, if you look at, if you look at why we have even looked at this section, the reason is, I want to talk about two specific features of mutual fund, and specifically focus on what's wrong with Why. Why do I want to spend time talking about what is wrong with it? Because that will give us an idea of what is why ETF. So ETF suddenly did not come out of thin air. I mean, there was, there was some thought process behind launching an ETF, but in order to understand how an ETF is structured, so if you think about it, if you are only trading in secondary market, suppose you don't care. You're not a systematic trader, you're not a HFT player, you're not you just want to buy and sell ETFs, then all of this is, is pretty much is redundant for you. Can you give us ETF trades like a stock you can go and buy and just be done with it. But this information is crucial, and this is where all the HFT players, systematic traders and big market makers, make money. And in order to understand, so I'm just providing the motivation, the reason why we are understanding ETF from a fund level, how is the fund structured? That knowledge will make you, make it very easy for you understand how what transactions or what kind of transactions happen in the primary before we answer, there's a question, why is there no formal relation between price of share? So, so the reason why, going back to this question, why is there no re Why is there no formal relationship? When I say no formal relationship, what I mean by that, that is, let's say you're standing here and you see this discrepancy, you can do nothing about it. You because this is the only way you can do something about it. Is to is to go back to the fund and either buy or sell. But this option is not there. It's a closed ended fund. By definition, closed ended fund means you can't do anything. So which means the market tries in the secondary market can just fluctuate. And there are many tons of tons of closed ended funds which do not perform well. I mean, they now you might say, Okay, if they don't perform well, why are they launching? I mean, there are various reasons for why do they launch, but at a high level, from our understanding, you should, for our understanding, you should, the key takeaway in terms of understanding ETFs is there is no mechanism by which what happens in the secondary market and what happens in the primary market. There is no way anybody can arbitrage. Now. There is another question as as as I speak. You know, there are many questions that are coming in. I will answer them as we go along, because I know that they're coming the next few slides. So please bear with me, but keep your questions coming in. So, as I said, the motivation, why? Why did we spend some time understanding this collective investment so as to just get a sense of how is, how is, how is the ETF, the main topic of this session, how is it different from a mutual fund? Mutual fund, I'm sure most of you know, but what I'm going to talk about is something which not many people would have paid attention to Okay, so let me go back to the version one of mutual funds. I mean, they think of this as when mutual funds actually started. You know, when mutual funds were opened up as investment vehicle. This is how it was structured. So let me explain what the structure, what this what these three boxes are, and what is this dashed line? So imagine these three boxes are three trading days, day one, day two, day three. Now this is how the nav, when I say nav, total, total market value of the portfolio by number of units,

Speaker 1  44:41  
number of units of the fund moves. Okay. Now, this is the, what is this? What is this circle? This is the end of day. End of Day. Nas, okay. Now, what is this? Dash line. Dash line says that if you walk in on any of these days, you. You will be able to buy or sell based on previous days and end of previous days. NAV, previous days close. NAV, which means you come here, you will be able to buy here. If you come on day three, you will be able to buy at this snap or sell at this okay. So just to reiterate, what does this mean? There is for any day you come in, whether you want to buy, whether you want to sell, you can only make transactions based on yesterday's end of day. That's that's how the structure is. Now my question is, for you, I mean, maybe you can type it on the chart here, who would love this product and who would hate this? Hate this kind of a structure. What kind, when I say, who think of a person as personas who will love this, a person as who will hate this? Kind of investors, a kind of people in the financial markets who would love this and who would hate this? Maybe you can just think about few minutes in a few seconds in this type who would love this structure and who would hate this? So what is the, what is the setup here walk into any on any given day from the fund you can only buy based on yesterday's end of day. Who would probably, yeah, I think love and hate. I think just think about it for a few seconds. If this was the structure and if you were to invest, would you you like it or would you hate it?

Speaker 1  46:50  
I have a few answers, please type in. I mean, again, you can take a guess. I mean, what kind of investors like? Can you put yourself in the investor's shoes and think about it if, if I were to come up with this scheme, and let's say, let's roll back to, let's say, 40 years. Would you love this? Would you hate this? Okay, I've seen few answers here. Let's, let's look at what's happening here. What's what is happening here when you come on day two, okay, what's happening in this specific scenario? You're coming on day two, the market has gone up and the fund is saying, Please buy or sell at yesterday's nav. So this is a slam dunk trade. You know that the market has gone up and you are, you are being offered units at yesterday's price, which has gone, which is, which is, which is, which is much smaller or much lower than what, what, what, what it's trading currently. So in this case, what you would do is you would probably buy at day one's nav and on. Let's say, let's say market tanks the next day. You know that if you go and sell, you're going to get a price based on yesterday's so the kind of people who who love this are the people who get in, get out of the market every day, or who like day traders. You think of any, any, any person who was not, who's not a long term trader or long term investor. So this is some of you have mentioned slightly the other way. The reason I want to you know, want you to pay attention is, if you're a long term investor, what's happening is the guys who are actually coming in and coming out of the market, coming in, come out of the fund, somebody has to foot the bill in terms of the transaction charges, and you are footing the bill. So that's, that's one of the, one of the key takeaways, we'll again come to that. But I want you to have a sense that look, if this one day lag, if you have a one day lag, traders who come in and come out of the market will love it, and long term investors will face the brunt. Okay, so this is again, this is, I'm talking about more than 40 years of more than 40 to 50 years ago structure. So the very fact that the structure existed would make you laugh, I guess, because how can you even talk about one day, stale price, okay, but this did exist now. Since then, things have changed. The things have changed in the sense that when today, when you go into any mutual fund, when you want to buy units, you are not you are allotted units based on the end of day of that specific day. So let's say you walk in at the early morning, 1130, 12, whatever, you don't know when the market ends. I mean, you don't know the price until the market ends. So in that sense, if you, if you look at this, this phrase, nav Next, determine, in one sense, when you. Fund, from any mutual fund, mostly your exact price at which is always fluctuated, because that depends on the end of day, end of day nav calculation. Okay. Now my question to you is, this is how, mostly, most of the mutual funds work, even to this day, the NAV is determined at the end of the day, and all the calculations happen based on that nav. Okay. Now my question to you is, is this a fair system? Is it a fair system? Meaning, is there any scope for loopholes? Is there any scope for loopholes in the system? At the outset, it looks like, I mean, nobody knows what's in, what nav is going to be. My question to you is, just think about 50 seconds. Do you think this is a fair system, meaning no loopholes whatsoever? Everything is fine. Maybe think for a few seconds and do

Speaker 1  51:06  
or any kind of people who can manipulate the system, and I say loopholes, can people manipulate the system? I

Speaker 1  51:19  
think most of you would agree that this looks like a fair system. But in the last 40 to 50 years, since this, this, this, you know, this way of structure is being presented to investors, there have been tons and tons of scandals. I've mentioned two scandals, if you just look at the scandals and mutual funds errors. There are so many scandals that have happened. Why these are all of these are trying to tweak the rules, play around the wordings, not follow the spirit of the agreement. For example, one of the things is late trading scandal. So late trading scandal means, let's say the market closes here at 4pm the guy comes in. The guy comes in after the market close, because of, you know, because of the time zone difference or so on and so forth. But there have been funds which have, which have allowed investors to buy in at the end of day, even though, technically they should be allowed only a transaction price of the next day, market timing scandal. So again, this is very, very common. Where is a massive market a dump? As a fund manager, I know that some guy is selling, I call up some guy and say, Look this. This is this guy's dumping. You want to do something. And these are only few scandals. Okay, there are so many, so many scandals that have happened in this space. So that's why the regulators, if you think why regulators are becoming are like are the watchdogs, and why are they combing through all the statements of mutual funds. They do audits. They try to figure out if there is any fancy transactions that have happened. All of this is because of this, because the structure, even to this day, it's not watertight. There can be so many scandals that can happen. Now, why am I speaking about all of this? Okay, so what I've spoken about version one, version two. Version two is where you know your now is determined at the end of the day. Now we look at one simple example, and probably you'll get a sense of why we are talking about about this. So let's say let's take a simple example. On day one, there are three investors, you and probably two of your friends. You invest a million INR into a fund. So total assets is 3 million INR. Now on day two, you are not happy with the Fund for whatever reason, and you put in a redemption request. So the fund manager, by the way, has already invested on day one is invested all your 3 million into a market. On day two, you say, for some reason, you say, I want my money back. Now, as a fund manager, let's say I'm the fund manager. Let's say you come and say, Look, I want my million INR back. I have to generate I don't have cash. I've just invested in the market. So in order to generate the money that I have to give you back. I have to sell securities, and let's say, in in doing so, I incur a transaction charges of 20 VIPs. For example. This is, again, just for illustration purpose. So I, let's say I, I incur a transaction charges of 2000 IMR. Now my question to you is, as an investor, where on day two, will you get back 1 million minus 2000 or will you get back something greater or less the three options, will you get back something equal to 2000 1 million minus 2000 will you get back something greater than 1 million minus 2000 or will you get back. Something less than 1 million. Think about the three. Three or two investors are still in the in the fund. You are saying you want my money back, and I have no choice. I don't have money. I have a fund manager already invested all of your money into the market. So I incur a charge of 2000 bucks to actually sell the securities. So my question is, there are only three options, whether you get greater, you get lesser, or you get exactly 1 million minus 2000 think for a few seconds.

Speaker 1  55:42  
So again, assuming there is no exit load, some of you are slightly complicating the situation, assuming this is just for illustration. So let's say there are no exit loads, and all market has not moved and all that. So we just want to see if the market has not moved, everything remains the same as day One day two. What will happen assuming the market total, market value of the fund, has not changed, everything is same. It's not going to happen that way. But for our discussion, this is useful to have that kind of simplified setting. Okay, let's see. I think I've got enough answers from you all. So let's see how this pans out. Okay, so once you, once you look at why, what will the investor get? Some of you have said less than, some of you have said equal to, some of the greater than. See this, 2000 INR, whichever which the fund manager has to incur to actually get back the money to distribute. Unfortunately, this 2000 INR is a transaction. At the end of the day, whatever is my portfolio value, I have to subtract 2000 INR, and I have to divide by the number of investors. So this 2000 INR actually is something which all the existing investors have to foot the bill. So if the fund manager makes any transaction, the transaction charges that cannot be associated and pinned to one specific investor. It's it's at a fund level. So what is the problem with this kind of a structure? Whenever somebody comes in and somebody goes out, the existing investors pay them, put the bill in terms of transactions. And you might assume, okay, what the big deal? I mean, there's so many investors. It's okay. It's a small it's a fraction of money that gets invested, that gets put by as at a personal level, you might think, Okay, I'm just where the million investors, how does it matter, even if it's a small amount? But the thing is, over the years, this adds up. So sometimes, you know, studies have been done where there is almost a difference of 1.5 to two to CAGR difference just because of these, because of these trades that are because of these, you know, trades that that happen because of transactions. The point is that the reason why this, this is called a free liquidity if you pay attention to this I'm calling when I say I, it's not I. It's an industry wide way to define this problem, it's a free liquidity problem. What is a free liquidity problem? The guy who walks in and walks out of the fund is free riding on the on the people who are already there in the market or they're in the fund. So again, just to clarify, just to put it in words here, the question, you should always remember that whenever somebody comes in and somebody goes out of the market as a long term investor, if you're a long term investor, in the fund you are paying, you're subsidizing the ins and in trades and out trades. Okay, now the second issue again. I just want to quickly talk about second issue, and before we move on to why ETFs again, the context of all of this is we are building up a scenario where it slightly becomes obvious that the structure, whatever mutual fund structure, that we have been having for the last 2025 years. I mean, last 50 years, is not suited for for a long term investor. And if you think about why this whole space has exploded, especially in the retail space. Why people are, you know, a lot of money is coming into this is because people have found this much more lucrative, or much more, let's say, inexpensive, as compared to mutual funds. Okay, coming back to what is the second feature that I want to mention, let's say you're a fund manager, active fund manager, and some of the securities in your portfolio have gone up, so you you'll always think about, okay, should you, should you just sell them and realize gains, or should you hold them? Why this matters? Because it always matters what kind of what kind of investors are there in your. Fund, will they be happy if you, if you realize gains and distribute tax, will they not be happy? So that constant decision making process keeps happening. In your mind, it's not just okay, the stock has gone up, and I don't care about what investors think. I think it's gone up and I'll, I'll just sell it. So that's, unfortunately, not always the case. The fund manager will have to think through the tax implications. So why am I? Where am I going with this? Okay, let me explain this. One of the one of your saying, one of the participants is saying, Okay, what is this? So let me quickly explain what this means. What this means is, if,

Speaker 1  1:00:44  
if a portfolio, let's say I have 50, I have portfolio, 500 instruments, okay, this portfolio worth is worth some dollars. Now let's say a couple of these stocks have risen. As a fund manager, I could, I could have fundamental technical, you know, discretionary, non discretionary, you can have all those signals and say, Okay, I better sell this. But whenever you sell this right, there is always going to be a tax implication on the on your on your investor base. So this decision point of tax implication is forever a thing to consider for active fund managers, where I'm, you know, where I'm going with this. For active fund managers, this is the, this is a decision criteria that they have to take. Now we'll see why I'm making these two there are only two points, by the way, I'm not flooding you with tons and tons of information. I'm just flooding I'm just saying two important things of why. So if I have to, let's say pick 80% of you know of the bank for the buck for an ETF? Where is it coming from? It's coming essentially, from these two limitations. One, as I said, there is no shareholder protection. I mean, shareholder protection is a very strong word, but what we are saying is the guy who comes in and comes out is free riding on the people who are already existing in the fund. That's number one. Number two, tax efficient. I mean, fund managers decision is affecting lot of things that happen at an individual level if you're an investor in that fund. So this is a problem which was, you know, which is not a new problem. You look at the time frame, I'm talking about, 1979 is probably 45 years ago that this, this professor named Neil Hazim. He he wrote a paper. I mean, I've given the link to the paper. You can read that if you're interested. It's not technical. It's just you get a sense of why, whatever I've spoken in, let's say, 10 minutes, you will probably have a nice verbal description of the problem. Now, that was, you know, put forth as a paper. Now, this paper was read by, I mean, a person by name, Nathan, most he's considered as the father of ETFs, because he's a guy who actually, who actually started the first ETF in the world. So again, look at the timeframe. It's about a decade later. That's when he's he, he started looking at this paper, and he said, Okay, let's, let's create a product. When you know that these are the two problems that are affecting many people, any investors, why not create a product that led to the launch of spiders? Spiders is the first ETF that was launched in 1993 again, I'm talking about slightly older. You know, it's about like 30 years back history. But this history is needed for you to appreciate why suddenly idea did not come out of thin air. There is, there was a reason why it came out of came into existence. I also, I would also like you to pay attention on one aspect, which is this guy. This guy is a this guy was a commodity trader. Now, the reason why I want to, you know, focus on this, this aspect that is a commodity trader, is that most of the lingo that you get to hear in ETFs, they smell like it's a commodity market. Now you might not, you might not be exposed to this lingo, because if you are trading like ETFs, like any stock, it doesn't matter whether you're buying a info stock or a DBS stock, or if the ETF or anything, it doesn't matter. But once you get into the market making, once you get into the HFT space, systematic trading space, you will, you will hear a lot of jargon that is coming from commodity trading space. Okay? Now, given this background, what we will do is, now is a good time for us to look at, you know, primary market. When I say primary market, we look at how, how we can understand this market. And then we'll, of course, so far, if you think about it, what, what have we covered? We have covered what cap rate. Indexes. What fund structures are we? We bash the mutual fund, saying, okay, they are not good because, you know, there's a free liquidity problem, the tax angle that guy, fund manager considers. So probably there is a better structure. Now, I have not given any inkling on how these problems are solved. Okay, I've not given any, any, any, any valid evidence. How are, how are these problems getting solved? So before we do that, what I would

Speaker 1  1:05:29  
detour into actually understanding what happens in a primary market. Okay, so this is super important, very important. If you're, if you're, if you're planning to arbitrage between these two markets. You plan to be a market maker, HFT player, because this is where the money is made. Asset. Money is made at a shorter interval. Of course, money is always made if you're long term investor, if you can trade ETFs, you obviously, you know, over a period, you make money. But I'm talking about algo trading in that space. Now we'll move on to primary markets. And one thing, there are some questions, where can I find the paper? Yeah, all of these links for the paper are there in appendix. So again, after the session, you can go open the slide deck, and then you can look at the appendix section, where you have all this, all the slides reference. Okay, okay, coming back to primary market. So this is, if I take a random sample of 100 people, 100 investors, maybe five investors will have a sense of how, you know how this works. That's, that's, that's, that's my experience, because most of the people don't even bother to understand this, because they are outside this they they are trading in secondary market, and that's it. And it's not their fault. It's also the fact that, by design, certain investors are out of this market, by design, by design, certain investors are out of this market. You might say why? You realize that very soon. So one of the images, or one of the visual images, that I want you to keep in mind, as far as the primary market is considered, considered is that of a warehouse now, in the first 90 minutes of the session, if you don't, if you don't find Take, take away anything. But this image, that this is a primary market, is a warehouse of stocks. I I think my job is done, because you can then figure out how, why? Why is it warehouse of stocks and so on and so forth. But this visual, please use it to remember this. Okay. Now, why am I saying warehouse of stocks? I mean, this is, this is very different from what image you might have a fund manager, you might have fund manager images. Okay, the money is coming in. He's doing fundamental analysis, technical analysis, this analysis, and then he's trying to, he has a set of equity research, analyst, trader, that's not what I'm saying here. Here. I'm talking about a fund manager. Is a guy who, who is, who's a warehouse manager, and be glamorizing the role for a very specific reason, because it is declam it because the role of a ETF fund manager definitely is more, less glamorous. But what he's doing is an important task. Let's, let's look at what he's doing, or he or she is doing in the first instant. You cannot, you can approach, this is a fund, okay, this is a ETF fund. Think of any fund, ETF fund manager, reliance, SBI, DPS, Nippon, you can, you can think of any ETF fund. Black Rob. If you have to make any transaction with this fund, you cannot go and buy certain just one unit. You have to buy in lots. Okay, so who decides this lots? Fund manager decides it could be 10,000 it could be 1000, it could be 500 it could be a lack, it could be anything. Now, what you have to do is you have to assemble the relevant stocks that are representing the ETF index. So let's say ETF is, let's say ETF is representing an index. Okay, this index has, let's say 50 stocks. This is an index, and you have an ETF which is which is representing this index, what is representing it will have same, typically, same weightages as the stocks in this index. Now, this whole thing, as representation is concerned, is very important from a trading perspective. Why? Because if you have to do any transactions, you have to actually assemble these stocks. You have to assemble q1, shares of stock, one stock, two, 250. Shares of stock, 50. Now you might say, Okay, how will. Know how, how many shares I should pick for stock, one, stock, two. How will I know? Now, this information is given by the fund manager on a daily basis. On a daily basis, you will know for a fund, if you have to transact with the fund in the primary market, you will know exactly what is a creation basket that you have to

Speaker 1  1:10:19  
that you have to create. You have to come, come to the fund. So if look at the transaction, this is what I want you to be very pay attention. The transaction is happening in kind. There is no dollar value that is getting exchanged. You are giving a basket and the and the fund manager is giving you ETF shares. So there is no dollar exchange, absolutely no dollar value exchange. It's only in kind. The transaction is in kind. So what happened? What is the main way of you know, what is the main transaction authorized participant? You give a basket, and the fund will give you ETF shares. Now, there are couple of things that I want you to pay attention, which is the lingo itself, creation, creation unit. Now this you will not typically, unless you are playing in the ETF primary market. This, this is something which will not come across, but once you start, of course, this becomes super important, because what is creation unit? Creation unit is the constituents of the box that you will have to you'll have to assemble yourself, when I say yourself, you have to get this done, and you have to come to the fund house. Okay, so that's creation basket, creation unit. Creation unit is this. Creation basket is a basket that you create, and creation unit is what you get from the font. Okay. Now hang on. You will you, we will work on, we'll work on a specific example where you will get all of these concepts clear. So we and we will not take some super sophisticated example. You will take a very simple example where you can work it on Excel. Before we get to working on Excel again, I just want you to pay attention on who these guys are. So who are these authorized participants? The reason why they're called authorized participants, the word itself means not everybody, not every retail investor can go and start transacting in the primary it's not, it's only for specific individuals. Now, who are these individuals? They're, they're authorized participants of the fund. So if you look at it, spider had over 30 authorized participants. I mean this, this number is slightly stale, but depending, since there are so many ETFs, there are, there are many opportunities to transact and and this space is exploded, has been taken over by hfts in most parts of the world, lot of hfts are acting as authorized participants, and they do market making. We will look at what market making is in this context, but think about these authorized participants as special participants who have lot of dollars because you can't transact one unit in primary market. You have to assemble a basket, and you get a you give the basket to the fund, and you get units. Okay, now, what will authorize participants do? You might imagine, why? Why? Why should I? Why should I buy this? Why should I buy these units in such a high quantity, or in such, you know, big volume. So there are many use cases. I mean, one of the use cases, again, to think about it, let's say I'm a market make, or let's say I'm even more simpler, let's say I'm a broker and I have a Japanese pension fund. I have a Japanese pension fund which wants to invest in, let's say, simple example, let's take nifty, any nifty ETF. Now, if it directly goes it has, let's say it has a lot of money, and it wants directly, you want to buy ETF, and it probably doesn't see much volume in the secondary market. So what does it comes to the broker? Broker could be any of the brokers that you can think of an Indian market, in any market. And what does a broker do? Broker assembles a basket, and it approaches the fund manager, and the fund manager will give back units, and this units are given back to Japanese pension fund, for example. And what is a broker doing back to back? He is not taking any risk. He's just creating. He's giving the baskets, he's and he's, he's, he's getting commissions on this. So this is one of, at least earlier days, this was one of the most you know, risk free kind of trade, because you are doing back to back transactions. You're creating baskets, getting units from the from the fund house, and giving back the units. Now these are some, only few use case. Okay, there's many, many use cases that we will we can think of. But. There is a massive demand, or the massive incentive, I should say incentive is a massive incentive for somebody to become an authorized participant.

Speaker 1  1:15:15  
Okay, so now what we will do is given as given. We have seen how primary market works. I don't want to, you know, show an example and then start giving numbers. I want you guys to work with some numbers, because that's when learning sticks. So what we will do is, I will talk about a simple example. You will have to work through this example, and given your answers, you might take maybe two or three minutes. It could, it could vary. But let's, let's see the the data that you would need for this is given in Excel. If you look at the Excel that have that has been sent across. So all the numbers that I'm showing you are there in this Excel. So in the Excel you you have the basket quantity. You have the basket quantity, for which means, if you are a market, if you are an authorized participants, you have to assemble this these stocks. The stock is bail for 33 units of bail, coal, India, 1686, Concord, 123, units. So this is all you have to assemble. Assemble, meaning you have to buy before you come to a fund. You also have to put in a cash component. So this is INR, so whatever, in this case it, let's stick to INR. So you have to have some bit of cash in this basket, and then you get that, you assemble the basket, you come to the fund, and the fund will give you, give you back 100,000 ETF shares. Okay, now my question to you is given the numbers. So the numbers are given in the in the Excel, the Excel sheet, you have the stock you have the stock quantity, you also have the stock price on the next sheet. So you have the stocks quantity, you have the price, you have to assemble this basket. Okay, find out what the what is the value of assembling this basket, and then for this basket, once you come to the fund, imagine I'm the fund manager, I'll give you 100,000 ETF shares. Now my question to you is, take, take a few minutes. I'm sure it's not going to be too difficult, because it's all Excel. There's no programming, nothing. We're just talking about at a conceptual level. If this was the basket that you have to assemble to come to primary market for to obtain 100,000 ETFs, what is the cost of one ETF? How much does it cost to buy one ETF? Okay, and what you know, kindly bear in mind that the transaction charges 20 bits. So whenever you create or buy, sell, buy, you buy this, you have to shell out 20 bips as transaction charges to the market. Now you might ask, what is some of? Some of? In some cases, there have been situations where I have to add to say, what is 20 bits, 20 VIPs is like, for example, if you are, if you're creating a portfolio of 10,000 INR, okay, you will, you will shell out point 2% of that 10,000 as transaction charts. Okay, so in so keep this in mind. 20 bips on 10,000 you have to pay 20 inf. So whatever portfolio that you're you're trying to create here, you'll have to pay 20 pips on that. Okay, now I'll remain silent. Maybe you work for a couple of minutes, and you let me know what is the cost of one ETF.

Speaker 1  1:19:15  
I see a few answers popping up. Please, please. I'll wait for some time. No hurry. Just take your time. Understand what I'm asking. All I'm asking is you create the portfolio, create this basket, foot in the transaction charges. You come to the fund, and the fund will give you 100,000 ETF shares. So essentially, for one ETF, what is the charge? Is what I'm asking? Just take some time. No issues, because it's probably a very low I mean, it doesn't ignore a lot of program, but a simple thought process will be useful later. So.

Speaker 1  1:20:22  
Again as a hint, all you have to do is try to take the basket. This is given for you, is given. You have to assemble this assemble, meaning you have to buy this basket. And you know the prices, you know the prices, you know the quantity. You try to assemble this basket, and you find out how much does it cost to assemble this basket, and whatever it costs divided by 100,000 would be a cost of 180 shares, or cost of 180 a share. Just wait for a few one moment, probably one more minute. Do

Speaker 1  1:21:03  
I'll repeat, for those who are working on this, or who are trying to work on this, try to figure out how much will be the cost of assembling this portfolio. You know the stocks. You know the quantity that you have to assemble. You know the price. You know how much transaction charges you have to foot to assemble X dollars of portfolio. You also know the cash component. Don't forget the cash component. You have to include the cash component. And then once you have the cost of assembling this basket, you just divide by 100,000 you will get the cost of 180 share.

Speaker 1  1:22:24  
Okay, let's let's look at how this number so I've seen a few of your answers. Let's look at how this example pans out. So I think some of you have got it right, which is given the basket quantity for each of these 10 stocks, what you had to do was to come, was to actually assemble. How do you assemble? You go and buy this stocks in the market, secondary market, the prices are given. So if you try to assemble this basket, this is the cost of assembling the basket, meaning which is not basket. Cost of assembling these 10 stocks. Now, as I said, you have to pay 20 bips on the on the transaction chart, on the purchase value, so you are your total cost of just buying the shares is this, 12439202, now, I've also mentioned that there is a need for cash component. This cash component, the fund manager wants you to have some bit of cash in the basket that you given. So your total cost turns out to be 2484527, now what happens when you give two, four, when you when you give this basket work, 24845, to seven. You get that 100,000 ETF shares, which means one ETF, the y value is about 24.8 I think most of, I think lot of you have got it right, actually, good. So I think I don't want to overemphasize this, but at the same time, this is very important to understand this. This kind of transaction is very different from what you do. It in a in a secondary market, secondary market, what do you do? You just put in. It's a stock. You just go buy, and that's it. But in this case, there is some bit of mechanics. There is some bit of work that authorized participant has to do in order to even transact. Okay, now let's do a very quick, quick calculation. Now that I have you already seen how this works, I am assuming that you'll be very quick in this, assuming that you already have 100,000 ETF shares. You already have 100,000 ETF shares. Now you come to the fund and you say, I don't want, I mean, I'm done with it. Just take, take back 100,000 idea of shares as a fund manager, remember the warehouse image? That's very important. I am not going to give you any dollars. I'm going to give you the basket. I'm going to say, thank you. This is the basket. You have redeemed your units. This is the basket. So it's a it's your job. If you are, if you're trying to, you know, completely get a monetary value out of this transaction, it's your job to actually go and sell this in the market. Now, my question to you remains the same. You had 100,000 ETF shares. You came to the fund. The fund gave you back a basket. Now you go, you go and sell this basket in the secondary market. What is this once? What is the cell value of one ETF? Now, given what we have seen in the previous slide, I think should be very quick. So all you have to do is try to find out, what is the dollar value this that you get by selling and please remember 20 bips transaction charge. And I'll wait for a minute or two to see your answers, you have to let me know what what is the cost of one? What is the cell value of one? Et,

Speaker 1  1:25:54  
again, no, not super complex calculations, simple calculations. But again, this emphasizes the point that the authorized participant, you have to do a lot of work, because warehouse is going to give you a basket. So take a minute, maybe, and let me know the answer for this. What is the cost of what is the cell value of one? ETF?

Speaker 1  1:26:43  
I'm fine, even if you give approximate answers, I just want you to work through it. Even if it's approximate, it's fine. I just want you to work through these numbers, because this learning sticks. Rather than me just showing the numbers, if you work out and then if you discuss it, the learning sticks. So please take maybe 30 seconds more if you have not done I'm seeing a lot of answers here. I

Speaker 1  1:27:26  
Okay, let's look at the way this these numbers pan out in this example. As I said, the fund manager is going to give you the basket. Okay, he's going to give you the basket, and it's your job sort of, to actually get value out of this basket. How do you get? You essentially go and sell it in the market. So this, if the prices are given so this is a value that you get from the market. Now, there's a 20 bits transaction charge that you need to you have to put in because you're that's a that's a cost that I've mentioned here. And then you also get some cash from the basket. You also get 45,003 25 so I think some of you have got it right, very simple, but I'm saying this is the mechanism by which transactions are happening. So just to reiterate, what is happening in these transactions. You are coming to the fund. You're coming to the fund with basket and you're getting units, or you're coming with units and you're getting baskets. So the thing to please keep in mind is, in kind there is no dollar value transaction. There is no dollar value exchange is happening, and the fund manager is essentially shuffling, if you think about that's why the warehouse image comes in is basically is picking up the basket and is giving to you. He's not doing anything specific. Okay, now we have, we have done some simple examples, and we have looked at mutual funds, and we have looked at all of this. Where are we going with this? Of course, you might think, okay, how is this? How is this solving the problem? Remember, I spoke about two problems. One is that any, any person who walks in in the mutual fund space, any person who walks in and walks out, the other people are paying the price. Okay, other people are paying the price for this similarly tax angle. Now, in this case, what's happening? Whatever? Two examples, simple examples you have seen where you are assembling a basket, you're getting units, or you're giving units, you're getting a mask. How does this solve the problem? Let's look at the same example, okay, now, same example that we spoke on day one three, investors come in and one of you and two of your friends may be put in a 3 million iron Now this was a free liquidity problem, okay, which we spoke. Which we discussed in mutual funds, the investor redeems and existing investors are bearing the brunt. Now let's look at how ETFs work, and based on what we have seen so far, on day one, you're not giving dollars to me. You're giving baskets too. So let's say each basket value is 2.5 million. Okay, so you bring one basket, two of your friends bring a basket each. So from my perspective, I'm a fund manager. I I don't have to do anything. I just have to take your baskets and I'll say, Okay, this is a ETF shares. It's like. So this is where the commodity trading aspect is coming in. Remember, I spoke about Nathan was being a commodity. If you look at commodities in the earlier days, the way to work this, you would get receipts. Your commodity would be locked in some warehouse. You would get receipts based on the fact that you had commodity in some warehouse, and you would trade those receipts. People, you know, after a point in time, people start stop trading physical commodities, because physical commodities are difficult in terms of delivery and all that. So you park all your commodity in a warehouse, you get receipts based on that, and then you start trading receipts. Several same, exact same is happening in ETFs. You're parking your baskets somewhere, and you're getting receipts. You're getting shares based on that basket. And then you're trading, I'm very going to trade in second. To trade in secondary market, wherever you want it, that's up to you. But for the for, for this purpose of this example, what's happening is I'm giving you 100,000 ETF shares. Now. What is happening to the fund assets? Each basket is 2.5 million. So three baskets is 3.5 million, and I have issued 100,000 ETF shares for each of you, the total ETF units are 300 300,000 so ETF on day one, the NAV is 25 why? 2.5 2.5 2.5 and I have given 100,000 units for each of them, each of you. So nav unit of one share, the cost of nav for one share is, unit is 25 and what happens on day two? Day two, you come and say, Look, I don't want, I want to redeem, as a fund manager, I will take you 100,000 ETF shares, I will extinguish them, and I'll give you a basket. So imagine the market has not moved, and everything remains the same. What's happening to the nav? There are two baskets.

Speaker 1  1:32:25  
There are 200,000 outstanding units. Your nav doesn't change. So which means this is a crucial, you know, point, which often gets missed out on why this ETF actually came into being. The guy who comes in and come goes out has no bearing on what the retail investor, what the long term investors ultimately gets, he has no bearing, because he the headache of actually transaction charges and all of that are pushed on to the authorized participants. So the guys who are in the fund that don't get affected by who comes in, who goes out, which means, if which, which automatically means the units wherever they're trading also don't get affected. Okay, that's one thing. A second thing is, as you can clearly imagine, in the previous case, we've talked about tax. You know, guy has to an active fund manager, has to think about various aspects of tax. Just think for a minute what is happening in ETF? As a fund manager, I'm taking basket, I'm giving you units, or I'm taking units, I'm giving baskets. I don't care about what kind of tax bracket you fall in, whether you care or whether you have capital gains tax. It doesn't come into the equation at all because this is in kind. So this is one of the another feature of ETF, which, which actually has attracted a lot of attention in the initial stages, and of course, over the period of decades, it has, it has, of course, skyrocketed. But these two things are solved. So let me reiterate these. Tax efficiency is solved. The free liquidity problem is solved in this structure. When this structure, as I said, You need to understand. Structure is very specific. It's not similar to what you find. Mutual funds is very specific, very come with basket. Get units. You get come with units, you get basket. Okay. Now you might, you might wonder, okay, will the index, will the will the baskets constituents change? So you might think, okay, baskets are coming in. There's a basket here. Will these baskets change? Unlike a warehouse, let's say warehouse, you have a certain commodity you put in the warehouse, probably that commodity will remain like that. But in the case of ETF This is very specific to ETFs, where the basket constituents have to keep changing based on what the index represents. Now this is very important. Just pay pay attention to this, please. So let's say I have a warehouse. I always have this image of warehouse, which is easier to explain and easier to understand on t equal to. One day, one, you give me a basket, and I give you back units. Let's say you are the only investor. Let's say you are the only investor, and let's say there are two stocks, for a very simple example, in this index. So this two stocks is representing some index, whether, in this index there are stock one, stock two. Let's say there's some proportion I'm maintaining this now after, let's say, six months, you come back with units, and I give you basket now between t equal to one to t equal to six, me, there could have been a rebalance. Maybe there's a stock coming in. Maybe the new index is x1 and x3 now I can't give you back old basket. No, i This doesn't work. This doesn't work at all. When you come back at the end of six months, or whenever you come in, I have to give us fresh basket. When I say fresh baskets, it has to reflect, it has to reflect the existing index. Okay, so, so you might, you might have this question earlier, when I spoke about cash component. In this case, remember you I spoke about cash component, where you have to given some cash component, you might have a question of, why is fund manager asking me, cash component? Why? I mean, I just came in basket. What is the need for cash? The reason why, you know we need, as a fund manager, there is some amount of cash that I need from you. Because when, who is going to foot this bill, when the stock comes in, yesterday, today, it was excellent. T equal to one, it was X and x2 six months later, x1 x3 who is going to rebalance that. So all that there are, again, out of corporate actions for which I need money, because I'm not taking any money, I'm only taking your basket. So if you if I don't take even a little bit of money, I won't be able to do all these rebalances. Now, in that context, just to see how many, you know, index changes happen, and so on and so forth. So this is nifty 50. So last, you know, 1516, years, about four index changes happen. So it's not, not a lot, okay? And if you look at nifty next 50, it's about eight rates. The others are also in this range. Now, why am I, why am I talking about these? You know, index changes, and what is the relevance? And the point I'm trying to make is as a ETF fund manager,

Speaker 1  1:37:25  
my my trades on a daily basis will be very, very few. In the sense, I won't be exiting out of one stock. I won't be entering into another stock on a regular basis, because that's not my job. My job is to make sure there is an index. I follow the index. That's it. That's my job. I will not make trades which are like all over the place, okay? So I'll make sure that my trades follow this index. So that's one thing again. This is in contrast with an active fund manager who is always on the lookout, Okay, where is the stock going down? Should I is the stock gone up? Should I sell it? All those decisions are taken out. Taken out completely. Okay. Now, another aspect of ETF, before we get into a break, is just the fact that, since this ETFs are trade in the secondary market. So you need to if you want to figure out how what is the value, there is something called indicative nav that gets published. Now, the word indicative, please pay attention. Indicative means it is indicative of the nav that will that will happen at the end of the day. Okay? And it's very easy to calculate. To be honest with you all, since you know the basket constituents, you take the current market prices, maybe at whatever time currently take the current market prices, you just multiply and get the Indicative nav. Why? Why is it called indicative nav? Because the nav can move anywhere throughout the trading day, and at the end of the trading day, whatever the fund uses to actually publish the nav that will converge, because it's, it's ultimately this is, this is based on the end of day nav. Now where can you get this? These indicative navs are available in many trading terminals and so on. Okay, so in any case, just to reiterate what we have done so far is we looked at what cap weighted indices are. We looked at fund structures. We looked at mutual funds. What are the two main problems with mutual funds, free, liquidity and tax. Tax perspective, we have played a play around with two examples of primary market if you are an authorized participant, how do you how do you come and, you know, make any transaction. Then we looked at what primary market, what? How does the ETF exactly solve this problem? Okay, what we will do is, it's about 90 minutes into the session right now, so let's take a 15 minute break, and then once we come back, we look at secondary market. We look at market making, what? What is market making? How market making happens in this space. We'll also look at certain industry metrics, and we also look at trading models. Okay, so please keep your questions coming in. In any case, if you have any questions, I'll either take it to the appropriate slide or, as I said, if it's requires a lengthy response, we'll respond off it in any case. So let's take a 15 minute break and assemble back in 15 minutes So

Speaker 1  1:43:27  
welcome everyone the second part of the session, before we begin, I think there are a few questions. I think what I'll do is I'll read out the question, and then maybe we'll also look at I'll also explain when it might pop up in the slides for so that you know that time get all your questions. So one of the questions is, ETFs are good. But, you know, in mutual fund managers have lot of flexibility in what they what they can allocate, maybe, you know, across themes, across assets, across market cap, so their alpha, so whatever, at a high level, this is, I think this is the question they can. They can. As a mutual fund manager, I have option to invest in many themes, assets, asset classes, strategies, blah, blah, and I can generate more Alpha than probably a specific ETF. Okay, now, so probably, so, which means maybe there's a case for mutual funds instead of, instead of me going for an ETF. So that's, that's one of the questions. We look at that question in one of the slides. Definitely, we look at this question and how, how things are changing in this space. So, the reason why I'm reading out this question and explaining is I just want everybody to probably many, many of you might have this question, similar question, the other question I have, which I can probably answer right away, is the other question is, ETFs are trading? Of course, at every instant of the in the market, from market, end to market, start to market, and ETFs are trading. Now the question is, when does the fund manager? When does ETF fund manager? When does he execute trades? Okay, when does he execute trades? Before I say anything, maybe you can just think about the question, and maybe you can think about what would be the answer, but at a high level, the question is, ETFs are trading everywhere. When will the ETF fund manager be able to execute trades? Now, the answer to that question is, is can be understood from looking at what an ETF manager does. What is it? What does the ETF fund manager do? His objective is to make sure that each basket that he carries, each basket that he carries, clearly mirrors the index, clearly mirrors the index. So if the index says X, X percentage of stock, 1y percentage of stock, 2z percentage of stock, three, a percentage, B percent, this these percentages is what he has to maintain in each of these baskets. And of course, the fact that if there are any corporate actions that he'll have to maintain, but think about when the question is, when does heat rate? So typically, the answer to this question is, you have to think in terms of, when does this basket metrics change? When I say metrics, when do the proportions change? When do these are all, these are all happening at a specific, you know, day, when the day, so at, let's say dividend hits, then the there's, there's a rebalance on a specific day, on a specific day that these baskets become stale. So just before the, let's say tomorrow there's a new basket. So tomorrow, one stock has come up, getting out of the market, another stock is getting into the market. So towards close of this trading day,

Speaker 1  1:47:11  
most of this fund managers try to rebalance. So this is called rebalance effort. Again, one of the questions here is about rebalance also, I'll explain that, but at a high level, depending upon the corporate action. In this case, it's a rebalance most of the fund managers will try to do towards the end, because they don't want to do somewhere here and then get exposed to a basket variation. Remember it? Let's say I do it in the morning. What will happen as of today? As of today, there is no x there is no let's say there's no. The new stock is not there. But I have included in my basket, what are the what are the stock tanks? For some reason, my whole basket will start underperform. So the answer to your question is, when, usually towards the end of trading, end of day, when, when such corporate actions happen? Or it could be towards very beginning of the trade, very beginning of the day, generally, to a during the day. During the day, there are usually no trades. There are usually no trades by the ETF fund manager. Now this is extremely different from how an active fund manager does? Active fund manager will make sure he gets the trades in and trades out throughout the day. Okay, so that's, that's one of the questions that was asked. Another question that was asked is one

Speaker 1  1:48:39  
second. There are many, a few questions that I think I should, I should at least read out so that it's useful for others about leverage ETFs. So there's one participant is asking about leverage ETFs. How do they work? Again, I'll, I'll talk about replication strategies. And then naturally, this whole space of leveraged ETFs will will come out. Will you have at least visibility on how these things work? Okay, so just hang, hang on for a few slides. Can you explain how to calculate IWF and capping? So again, this is a very specific question. How do I get IWF? So I think, as far as you know, as far as this, factors are concerned. So typically, I mean, this is how we do it, an index provider, it could be a footsie Russell, it could be MSCI, it could be whatever he gives us, let's say, very simple scenario. We take three stocks in an index, and these percentages are given by the index provider. So as a fund manager, my job is to make sure that I align as much as possible to. To these indices as much as possible. The closer I am, the better it is. Sometimes it is not possible to exactly align. We'll get into that, and that's where replication comes in. What kind of replication strategy you're going to have, but at a high level, these the weights. I'm not going to do a quant model and decide, okay, what weights I'll have. I mean, of course, they're depending upon, you know, what kind of replication strategies you you have. You might want to have some model. But largely, more than 50% the the weights are pre decided by the index provider. Okay, so there's how much a specific gap you want to put on this stock, how much so? All that is decided by the index provider. So fund manager is free of free of choice in terms of that. He doesn't have to bother but again, when I say he's a fund manager doesn't have to think about any of this. I'm assuming that it's a full replication. We'll we'll discuss what full replication is. Full replication, it means you are exactly replicating whatever the index index provider says. This is the percentage you're going to replicate it, as is there other strategies where full replication is not possible, sometimes and not suggested, so that's where your quants comes in. We'll get to that. But point note. The point to remember is the weightages of each of these stocks will depending upon what kind of replication that you are following. And you have to, you have to mention that in a prospectus You can't hide behind, like what I say, what I mean by hide behind is, let's say, if I am a fund manager, when I say full replication, I have to specify this in my is in the prospectus. I can't specify full replication and do some random stuff in my portfolio, so that that's, I mean, the regulator will come and catch my neck. Okay, so now what we will do is, before we get into the secondary market. So what is the game plan for the next session? Again, there are some questions, which I will definitely get to as we go along. But the game plan is going to be like this. We are going to look at secondary market, because so far we have seen primary market, how it happens. It's slightly different from what you would have expected, where in your transactions are happening. Baskets in secondary market, you know more or less, since it's trades as a stock, you pretty much know what's going to happen there. But then we will look at the interplay, and that's where all the HFT algo trading, systematic trading, actually they are, they are the people who dominate that space, and we look at how that happens. But before that, let me just see if I can. Let me see if I can.

Speaker 1  1:52:53  
Okay, for some reason this not enabled here. Okay, no problem. So I wanted to ask a few questions, but maybe we can continue. And then let's see. Okay, let's start with the next section, which is secondary market. Okay, in the secondary market, as you all know, there is a order book which is, which is in most of the market. It's a, it's a lit market. When I say lit market, everybody can see you the limit order book. Anybody can see this. Okay, so the buy orders coming in, the sell orders coming now, this part of is this part of the book everybody can see. When I say, Everybody retail investors, anybody can see. But this the way the author is. Participants are positioned or in this game is that they are the people who, of course, can see the lit market, but they are the people who also have access to the primary market, which means, depending upon how these Interplay happens, they have the muscle to arbitrage. And this is where the entire, you know, entire HFT game happens. The arbitrage between primary and secondary market is where the money is made. Okay. Now, in one of the examples we saw in closed ended funds, since there is no mechanism for me to go back to the primary after the fund and buy and sell this linkage is broken, but here there is a clear linkage where you incentivize so from a fund manager perspective, what am I doing? Let's say I'm a fund manager. I'm incentivizing specific people to up to arbitrage between the nav and the secondary market. And why am I doing that? So that I want whatever be the nav, this has to be very close to that. So that's my that's my objective. When I say I is fund manage. What are the fund managers objective? My fund managers? My objective is make sure that this nav, whatever is the nav here, is close to secondary market, because if it's too. Far away, people will I mean, it doesn't make sense. NAV is at one value you're trading at some other value. It's like the same story of closed ended funds. They sometimes they don't make sense because they're completely out of sync. Now, some of the phrases that I would request you to pay attention is market at a premium. So this is typically, you might have heard this term, market is at a premium in various contexts, but in the context of ETF, it has specific meaning. And this is a lingo, typically is that that you get to hear when you when you are in between, anywhere in HFT space or trading space, systematic trading. What? Does marketed premium mean? If you look at the price that of a of a single unit nav, it is 24.79 in the primary market and in the lit market, in the secondary market, the best bid and best ask 24.86 and 24.91 are higher, are higher than 24.78 so that's why the usual lingo is the market is at a premium. That means what that means that market is considering this one ETF unit at a higher price than what is the actual nav based on the number of units and the value of the value of the portfolio and the number of units issue. Now, what do you do if you are an arbitrage what would you do? You would probably say, Okay, this is this is lower and this is higher. So classic example is, okay, let me supply at 24.86 you would probably buy, buy here, and probably selling right because market is at a premium. Or you might put a limit sell, and you might become a best seller, but put a limit sell instead of 24.91 you can be a 24.9 so strategy at a high level is very, very simple. I mean, it's not too complicated in the sense that you're looking at one you're looking at two prices. And you know that you, you are incentivized when I say not everybody can do this. Not everybody can do this. Only HFT people systematic trading. You You need to have certain, certain muscle, money muscle, to do all of this. Okay, so which means this mechanism itself is not there in other, other funds, structures, this, this is there in ETFs, and that's probably one of the reasons why you see that the nav, and the Indicative nav and the nav almost are in sync. So if you open any term, today is not a trading day, but if you open a trading on a trading day, you will see indicative nav

Speaker 1  1:57:54  
and your your actual What do you say the actual unit that's trading are that the trading very narrowly? Why? Because this, if at all the bridge the gap increases, there are people arbitrages who step in and who close the gap. Now the second phrase is marketed discount. Again, it's very logical of where this what? What do we mean by this, given what we what we spoke a few minutes ago, this means the prime. If you look at this specific number, 24.79, this is that the market, the best bid and best task is actually lower than this. So that's that is what we mean by marketed discount. So these, again, this is a lingo. I'm just explaining the lingo. It's not not necessary that you need to know all of this. But at a high level, you know, you'll come across these phrases, and it's useful to know that this is what it means. You might when you say it marketed a discount. You must automatically flip your mind to this visual or this kind of an understanding when it comes to EDS, what do you do in this? In this case, again, you're getting something cheaper here, so you'll probably buy it at 24.74 compared to this. Or you'll you can put a limit order, a limit buy order at 24.7 and be the best buy. So again, very simple strategies, just looking at the numbers. And then you're playing with, playing with what you want to do. Okay, now what I would like you to do is, again, like, what have we worked out? A very simple example in the primary market, I would want you to, like, spend two or three minutes. Again, nothing more than Excel is needed for this. What? What am I asking you to what am I requesting you to work out it is this, imagine you are an authorized participant or market maker, any HFT system, money trading firm, broker, market maker, anybody who has access to primary market and, of course, who has access to second Now, my question to you is, would you. Put a market buy or a limit buy or a market sell or limit sell the quick. Of course, when I'm asking you this question, you want to put a market buy or a limit by market seller, limit sell, I am not deliberately giving you indicative now, because if I give you indicative now, it's kind of obvious what you probably is very easy to at least go at it. So the question here is, I'm not giving you indicative enough. What I'm giving you instead is the basket that you have to construct and the cash component so that you take this you construct this basket, you you go to the fund manager or a fund house, then you get back the units. And when you get back the units, you will be able to figure out what is the at that point in time, what is the indicator nav? Because you are actually doing it. Fund manager is not fund managers giving you units. Once you compute, you indicative map, then you can decide what you want to do. Okay, so take three, two or three minutes and no hurry, do it calmly and try to understand what I'm asking. I'm asking you two cases. Yeah, first case is where, even if even you do not charge any premium, meaning, if there is even a little bit of money you want to make, you want you arbitrage between the two markets, primary market and secondary. In the second case, I'm saying that at least there must be a 35 bits markup on on buy or sell. So that for you to make sense, why 35 bips? Why not? Let's say whatever random number. Because I mean, based on my experience I've seen for very liquid counters, sometimes the traders need about 35 bits for a liquid counters. This can go to 100 bibs. It can go to 200 bips. But for this example, let's stick to 35 bits. Okay, so I'm reiterating the question. You are a authorized participant. You have access to primary market. This is how this is how the secondary market is looking. You know the best bid, you know the best task, you what you don't know is inf. So my request to you is, take couple of minutes crunch these numbers, find out. What I now is, once you have I now you'll be able to compare with best between best task. And then the question remains the same, whether you want to put a market by limit by or a market sell limits. Okay, so let me, let me wait for some time, maybe couple of minutes. Maybe you can work for some time, and then we'll go through the numbers.

Speaker 1  2:03:09  
And by the way, just to make make things easier, all of these numbers are there in the Excel. You don't have to actually manually type in all these numbers. For example, 33 the basket quantities, which I showed you on the slide. 33 is one, six. This remains the same from the first example. There's absolutely no change. The price is 355831, it's there on this one of these slides. Yeah, it's there on this slide, 39 worksheet, 355, so all the numbers are already there in the Excel. We don't have to manually type in any of this, you just sort of pick the right excels, like 39 slide. 39 as the prices, quantity, basket quantity is there one of these slides, like the first slide. In fact, this doesn't change. So you have the basket quantity, you have the cash component, you have the prices. So whatever the numbers you're seeing on the slide are already available in your Excel. All you have to do is a bit of multiplication and division, and then you'll be able to get to inf. And then once you have inf, just think about it. What do you want to do? You.

Speaker 1  2:06:11  
So for those who are working through it, all you need to do is try to figure out what is the Indicative nav? An indicative nav is the same old calculation that you will have to do, which is, given basket, given cash component, given prices. And please note that in the earlier case, there was, there was transaction charges. In this case, I mean, I've generally made it easier, no, no transaction charge, so you don't have to consider any transaction charges.

Speaker 1  2:06:49  
For those who are working through let me repeat, basket is given. Dash component is given, prices are given. You have to compute what is the cost of assembling this basket, once you get to assembling the basket, you'll know what is the cost of either buying or selling one unit of ATF with the primary market. You, anyway, have the Best Buy and best best bid and best ask on second. You just have to compare them and see if it makes sense. So

Speaker 1  2:08:20  
do have a go at it, because these, these numbers, once I once I show the numbers. Of course you'll figure out. You'll know how this works, but always pre computing or pre calculating what any problems such as this would help you, help you in effective learning. So please do work this out as we speak again, just have a go at it, even though you might, might not, might not get it right, but that's fine. You just have to think through okay, given this basket, how do I construct? How do I get inf?

Speaker 1  2:09:28  
Maybe I'll wait for maybe a minute more. I'll see if there are any more Hans responses. There are a few I'm seeing right now. What is the markup, the minimum profit we want? Yes, markup is essentially if, if you're looking at, if you're looking at x, if you're if you're saying, in the primary market and the secondary market, the difference, the price difference, at least, should be 35 bits. I think I mentioned 30. Five bits that this is a markup, because whatever you get, you should mark that up by 35 bits, and this secondary market should be willing to entertain you with that. That's what I mean by. Okay, let's, let's, let's, let's look at the how the numbers pan out. Because this, this is an example where, this is probably the simplest example where we are looking at how, what is going, what goes on in the mind of a market maker. Market Maker sees spots a discrepancy between primary and secondary. Then he does something. Now, before spotting the discrepancy, he's not going to, how should I say he's not going to wait for indicative now, I mean, he's not going to wait for indicative nav to come from some third party. I mean, what do I mean by that? Why am I forcing you to, you know, do this indicative nav computations? Why you might say, okay, there is a, there is a. I mean, I can quickly show you this terminal itself, where, I mean, this is a, you know, this is a spider market data terminal. I mean market data terminal where you have spider today, market is closed, but I never, I can get it from market itself. I'm any of these providers will provide me. I know. Why do I have to even compute inf? That could be a valid question. But what I'm saying is, when you are in this space, low latency HFT system added trading space the you would have to compute in AV based on the market prices, and you need to quickly react. So the computation of I nav is typically done by the brokers, by the hfts, by themselves. They don't look for a third party to get INFS for a retail investor, that's fine. Retail investor looks at inf. He doesn't have the infra to actually do all of this inf real time. But most of the systematic traders, they compute inf by themselves, by themselves, meaning by their own infrastructure, infrastructure. So that's why this example is important, where we look at a very simple example, where the basket is given, prices are given, Secondary Market Snapshot is given. Now let's look at how this works. As I said, we had to compute the basket quantity. We have to assemble this right? We have to assemble this basket in order to even approach a mutual fund, ETF fund, we can't approach it ETF dollars. We have to approach ETF fund with a basket. So when you assemble this basket, and let's say you you add this cash component, you see that the total value of assembling this basket is 2489913, just price times multiple. I mean, we are doing nothing else but multiplying, monitoring price and then sum it up. We're just doing a summation. That's it. And once we do this, we know that for this, you're going to get 100,000 units. So, so you're you're buying nav is 24.8899 so if you go

Speaker 1  2:13:08  
all of this top portion, this is happening with respect to primary market. We are not even looking at secondary market right now. If you were to compute I nav based on the big data, based on the quantity, by the way, who gives you this? This the fund manager will give you on a daily basis. Okay, you might say, Okay, how do I get this quantity? So will I magically get this? No, of course not. You will have to every every fund manager will disseminate this data. It's in his own interest. Is he his or her own interest to disseminate this data? You can also get this data on trading on market data terminals also, and this doesn't change. This doesn't change within a day with for a day this remains constant, okay, if the cash component remains constant. Now this, this example is fabricated because I have deliberately chosen numbers so that you know the NAV is actually is sitting between best bid and best ask. I've deliberately made this example so that there is no obvious because if you look at it, the NAV is pretty much in between best bid and best ask. So there, here, neither the market is at a discount, nor the market it is at a premium. It's pretty much at par. And this is how 90% of the times is for liquid ETFs in most of the markets. Okay, again, it depends from geography to geography. Most of the times it is, it is tight between what the nav and the what you see in the secondary market, that it's very tight. The reason is there are arbitrages who are, who are, who are, who are doing this day in, day out. And the job is to make sure if there's an arbitrage, they just close closer arbitrage. Now for case two becomes now when now think about case two. Case two, I said, you require at least 35 bits. Now. The answer becomes obvious, when there is no arbitrage, when there is no app for no markup, will there be an arbitrage for for some markup? Obviously, no, because if you're buying now, is this, if you want a 35 bits on top of this, you have to sell it at this but market is no. Market is not willing to buy at 24.98, so if you want this arbitrage, want a markup. Now you might say, Why? Why do I need a markup? So this is typically the funding charge. If somebody is giving you money to play, somebody's giving you money to market make somebody's money giving you money to fund your whatever trading. So there is a funding cost associated. So that cost when you when you get to trading, it depends, it depends on whips. Maybe for some counters you want 35 bits. For some illiquid counters, you might want 100 bits. Why 100 bits? Because that is the cost that you are incurring to actually do this trade. Okay, so this is an example where what you had to do, if I have to summarize what you had to do, you had to actually take the basket. I had given you a basket. I had given you the quantities of the stocks that have to be in the basket. I had also mentioned the cash component. And what you had to do was, first assemble this basket, get the dollar value of this, then you divide by the number of units, or number of ETF shares that you get, and then you compare this with the bid and ask. That's what you have to do, just to summarize. And then you decide, okay, whether indicative nav is it, is it is a market at a discount or is a market at a premium? I'm just reiterating this so that you know you clearly understand what has been said. And of course, one of the other reasons why I'm reiterating is I want you to quickly, maybe this time, spend couple of minutes only to answer this question, which is similar question, exactly same question. I have only, I've changed the numbers, so I'm not going to spend too much time here, maybe just couple of minutes, two minutes or something, where you it is exactly, rinse, repeat, same question, but just the numbers have changed. Wherein you have the stock market, you have the basket, you have the cash, you have the cash component, you have the price. And none of this. You don't have to manually type in all of this. Are there in Excel, if you go back to your Excel, if you go to probably slide 44 the last Excel sheet, you will see all the prices, the cash, the basket has not changed. So maybe I'll just wait for maybe two minutes, because it's it's exactly same. What we have seen in the previous example. It just the numbers are different. So just quickly, kinds of numbers, and I'm okay with even if you give give me answers for either of the cases, case one or case two. So I'll wait for maybe two minutes please. And given what you've seen earlier, I think it should be straightforward. You.

Speaker 1  2:19:17  
And I request you to go at it, maybe quickly. The ly the process is the same. Given the basket, quickly multiply the quantity times price, add the cash component, no transaction charges. So you know the value of the basket. You divide by the number of ETF shares.

Speaker 1  2:19:45  
I'm okay, even if you specify the what market is it? Is it a marketer discount market, a premium where? What is it? Just want you to get your hands dirty on a few basic numbers and. Of course, the complexity grows as we go along.

Speaker 1  2:20:12  
Okay, let's let me show the numbers and maybe the just for your information, this, this numbers, the slides, these will be sent to you after the present, after the session. So you will have, you'll have a lot of time to look at these numbers. These numbers currently are not there on your slide, but they will be shared with you after the session. So So at a high level, before I move on, the process is the same. You're trying to multiply quantity of times price. Try to find out what is a buying price of nav. You're trying to find what is a Navid as you can see, the best bid and the best task is less than the Indicative nav, which means market is at a discount. So what do you do at a market discount? Again, it many ways, but all I wanted you to figure out is this part, and then you can you, if you want some markup, then you can again, figure out what you want to do. So I don't want to spend too much time on this, but I because this is the crux of I mean, from here, the complexity grows. I can spend more examples. I can give more example but a high level, this is it. Meaning you have primary market, you have secondary market, you try to figure out which which market is priced higher, priced lower, and then arbitrage. So in the next part of the session, we'll do a couple of things. I also, I also have to answer a few questions I will answer as go along. So please have some patience. I'll definitely have noted on some questions which I will answer before that. Can you please share an example of how an arbitrage would trade In a case between primary and secondary? So so I'm sure that's exactly what I said here. So if you remember this example, wherever, for example, here, how does an arbitrage or trade? You know where the Indicative now is, you know the where the secondary market is. This is how you trade. I mean, there's, if you ask me this, in terms of what decides who gets to get eat this arbitrage, it's mostly speed. It's mostly speed and the way you can execute this trade quicker. Now what we'll do is we will, we will look at a couple of things. Okay, we will so far, so far, we have not looked at some basic metrics, which I think is an essential component of learning. I mean, whenever we learn about any any instrument or any market, we have to take away. One of the takeaways is a broad understanding of the market. Meaning, you know, what is it about? How much money is there in the market and so on. So there are two ways to go about it. One is, there are some numbers which I've shared. I mean, those numbers are slightly stale. I can't share the recent numbers and recent data because of, you know, commercial implications, because most of this data is paid data. But what I've done instead is is created an environment where we can we can learn together. How is that? How do we do that? So what I'll do is let me share the screen. So

Speaker 1  2:23:30  
this is how, in the next couple of minutes, is going to be in terms of engagement. Okay, I'm going to, I'm going to be asking you a question about ETF space. Okay, now, please don't Google, please don't search for the answer anywhere. You do a guesstimate. Okay, you guesstimate the number. Why I'm saying guesstimate? Because if I once I show you the number, the actual number, it will stick that's number one. So you try to guess. If you know it's fantastic, if you know it's you can just answer. When I say answer, type it in the chat box here. If you don't know, please think for a few seconds and reasonable, give a reasonable estimate. Okay, if you don't think it's, if you don't have any clue on what is the number, even then go for it. Okay, so that's how it's going to be for the next to be for the next few few minutes. Okay, we are we're going to explore the metrics around this ETF space using this format. Okay, so the first question from my end would be, what are the number, total number of funds across the world, ETF funds, you can you can type, you take guess and give me the numbers. And the rule is you should not search, you should not search Google. You're not such. You just have to estimate based on what you think. And that's, that's the idea. It'll stick. What do you think are the. Total number of ETFs across the world.

Speaker 1  2:25:08  
So I see a couple of answers, 9000 10,000 1000 100,000 greater than 100, a million. I'm reading out, because it kind of gives you an estimate of other people, also other people estimates also, just to I'm talking about number Okay, number of funds, 15,000 500,000 1,010,000 20,000 Okay, good that you're doing this. Guess, even though you're off, that's fine. Some of you are off, that's fine, because idea is to understand how this what are the numbers? So what I'm going to show you is across the years, what has been how has the number of funds grown? So what you're seeing on my screen is the last 25 years. So it started off with, you know, hardly any funds. As of this is as of 2025 December 31 so a couple of days ago. So as of December 31 2025 there are about 16,000 funds. So some of you have answered in that ballpark. So that's fine, that that's good. But others, that's fine. You know the idea of actually answering the question before seeing is that it will prime you, it will give you a calibration. Okay, this much. This is the amount I was off by. Okay, so there are 16,000 funds. So in one sense, they're not many funds actually, then 16,000 funds is not you might think it's not much compared to so many, so many active funds are out there. Okay, a second question is, again, what is the total alien of all these, you know, all these funds that we have seen just now, guess, millions, billions. Just guess and put in your guess total size of all I'm not talking about us alone, but complete global market. Is it in billions? Is it in trillions? How many? Yeah, you can just take a guess, and Please guess, because that's the point. So

Speaker 1  2:27:23  
that will give a chance to calibrate immediately how much off you are.

Speaker 1  2:27:32  
5 trillion, 4 trillion, 1 trillion, 1 trillion, 30,000,000,000,010 70 million, 15 trillion, hundreds of trillions. Okay, let's look at them as of as of end of 2025

Speaker 1  2:27:57  
so it's about 20 trillion. I think some of you are ballpark. You've got it right. So this is as of end of 2025 about 19.3 I'm just rounding it up for 20. But what I want, with the reason why I want to show you a time series graph of this is, think about what has happened in 2025 you see this? This block, this block is 5 trillion block, okay, 5 trillion bar. And if you look at how much time it took from 5 trillion to 10 trillion, at the end of 2017 it was 4.6 and it took about 1819, 2021, took over this much time to actually get from five to 10. But look at how much time it took from 10 to 1522, 2324 and look at how much time it has taken to jump from five, from this to five. So it's it's skyrocketing in terms of what is happening in this market. $20 trillion is a lot of money in a which is just parked in 16,000 funds. Now, one of the, you know, I generally take a diversion here, just to again, this is not relating to ETFs or trading or anything. It's just numeracy. How do you develop numeracy skills? And one of the ways, I think it's, I mean, I've shared previously also, and some of them have found it useful, is to have visual cues. Because this 20 trillion number will the amount of information that you that we receive on a daily basis is so much we probably might not remember this 20 trillion number. So one of the ways to, you know, remember these numbers is to actually have a visual cue. This is what I'm showing on my screen. Is a way to remember. So 20 trillion when you think about, if you think about GDP of India is 4 trillion. So you think about five times of Indian, Indian productivity. Or if you think of Apple, the recent Apple, Apple's market cap is $4 trillion so you can think of five apples in a jar. Or if you think of Vanguard, Vanguard is a guy who, Jack Bogle is the guy who founded Vanguard. Vanguard ETF area means 4 trillion. So again, five Bogles. So again, the idea is just to, I'm just giving you something just completely off from what I wanted to speak about, which is trading and all that. But numeracy skills are very important in this, this market? Even if you are a HFT trader, you need to have a ballpark idea of what this market is, how much numbers and so we are speaking of just to retreat, we are thinking of $20 trillion approximately 16,000 funds. Now, second, third question again, we I'll pick a sample of questions. I won't be able to go through each question, but main questions I'll pick up, and then I'll request you to go at it. So third question is this? What is this? How is this? 20 trillion distributed amongst equity, bond and commodity? What percentages? How much percentage? 9010, 1080, 25, whatever you just add it up 100 and just let me know. What do you think are the percentages of this 20? How is this 20 trillion distributed in equity, ETS, Bond, ETS, commodity, ETS, good? Please. Don't Google. That's only request. Based on whatever you think, based on whatever your understanding is good. So some of the answers have got are 7515 1050, 2525 three to two is to 120, 3050, 8015, 550, 3020, 7020. 1050, 30, 20, 70% bond, 20% equity, 10% commodities, 40% equity. So yeah. So, as you can see there, there are various kinds of answers. Let's look at what as of, as of December, 25 December. And let's see what, how this is. So

Speaker 1  2:32:20  
what you're seeing on my screen is the total 20 trillion. How is it distributed across various asset, various types of assets? So equity is about 70, 76% bond is about seven, 16% commodities, about 2% so even though you might think, okay, gold and all of these are massive, but to be honest with you, that the amount of money is still massively in equity and bond, depending upon where you come from. You might, you might. You might think that, okay, there's a lot of money in commodity. Commodities. Yes, it's growing, but still, if you look at it, most of the money is still in equity and bond. ETS, okay. Again, the idea is asking this question is to calibrate your understanding based on whatever knowledge you have. Let me pick up another question, if possible, yeah, maybe this, what is the am distribution for this 20 trillion how much of money is in us, how much of the money is in Europe and how much of it is in Asia? So

Speaker 1  2:33:27  
again, just go give, give some numbers based on what you think is, is this? How much is money? Is in us, how much of it is in Europe and how much of it is in Asia? 22 run is a lot of money. So where is it parked? At least at a high level you need to know,

Speaker 1  2:33:50  
815, 590, 262, great. I mean, at least I am happy that all of you are giving your responses because that's that's one way to calibrate your own understanding about how this what this numbers are. So let's look at by region. So you see that US has about or America has about 72% Europe is about 15% so Asia is about 10% so out of the entire market, the action is still in US and Europe. But having said that, this market is picking up. So one of the questions, one of the interesting questions, is, you showed us a figure of 5 trillion in 2025 this 5 trillion increase in 2025 where is it coming from? How? How come market has exploded by 5 trillion. So there are a couple of reasons, actually. One of the reason is markets themselves have gone up. So about a 101 point 5 trillion to. 2 trillion of this is just the markets going up, because most of these are are large cap, you know, in stocks. So since the market itself has gone up about 1.5 2 trillion is coming from this. The second reason why there's so much of interest is this is the first year when fixed income, fixed income, ETFs have performed really well. When I said, perform lot of flows, amazing amount of flows into fixed income. And third, usually this 10% what I've shown was, I mean, the across international markets, across European markets, there's a lot more interest in ETFs. And if you look at any of these, you know, the Asian markets, a lot of money that's going into ETFs because of the nature of investing and the nature of exposure that lot of people are having in that they want to ride the market. So the couple of factors, but broadly, why 5,000,000,000,003 factors? Maybe you can remember, market generally has gone up. Fixed Income and ETFs have done tremendously well. And general understanding of ETFs and why ETFs are needed has gone up. So what I'll do is, in the rest of time, maybe we'll take one question, or let me see, maybe I'll walk you through the answers. Top three countries by number of funds in Asia. Okay, so this, let me show you the answer, so that you get a sense of what, what we're talking about. We're talking about num top three countries were number of funds.

Speaker 1  2:36:38  
So, of course, US has about 2000 funds Ireland. So these are all the various how the distribution of funds across various jurisdictions in Asia. If you want to pick specific Asia, you'll see that China has about 872 funds. Korea has about 715 Japan has two seven, and India is about 187 so again, even in Asian market, there are still other countries which are doing very well. See, these are all questions that will, that will make you think about, what is the nature of market, and how is it growing? Maybe a lot. Maybe this is important expense ratio. So this is, whenever you invest in a mutual fund, usually you have to pay a decent amount of exchange expense ratios. I'll show you what is expense ratio of all the funds, or at least most of the big funds, and you will see how cheap they are actually, in terms of how much they charge. So what I'm showing on my screen is the bips they charge on the portfolio for anything. Let's say I've picked a random 100 million portfolio, and at least 100 million, am to more than that, it's rock the prices are actually rock bottom. I mean, they don't charge a lot. So the the amount of money that you pay as expense ratio is, really, is very, is really, very small as compared to, let's say, expense ratios in active funds and so on and so forth. So this is something which I want you to keep in mind. And this is also very important, when you choose ETFs. Suppose there are five ETFs. Suppose this is one of the questions I had asked. I wanted to ask, but I could not in any case, I'll explain that what I wanted to ask, which is, if I have ETF one, ETF two, and let's say ETF three, there are three ETFs which are actually there. The index is common. Okay, let's say they're for simple. Simplicity. Let's say they're nifty 55 there are three ETFs, if you want to put money, how will you select which ETF to put in money for? And this is where things come into picture, where this is different from. Let's say, mutual fund. Mutual Fund, what will you see? You will see how it has performed, alpha, whether it has any drawdowns, but how much volatility it is, whether the fund manager is, how much is so all that your idea is to generate alpha, but in the case of ETFs, your idea is not to generate alpha. Your idea is to actually get index returns. So if this index, so the metric that you typically use when you when you selected ETF, is called tracking error. How much is a tracking error of the ETF visa V index? The more the tracking error, the the more propensity you should be stay away from it. The less the tracking error, the more appealing it is. So this is one and then the expense ratio. How much are the how much is the fund charging? So based on these two things, expense ratio, and at least, there are other factors also, but these are couple of factors that will go into the. Deciding which ETFs to invest if they're if they're representing the same index. So in that context, this is very useful to know. Okay, let me pick up one more example that will help us understand this better. I think this is important replication. So let me show you an very interesting example of replication. What do I mean by replication? So out of all the funds in the world, which is 16,000 funds, $20 trillion if you look at it, there are 50% which are optimized. They are not full replication. Please remember this. This is where a bit of quant comes in. You. Lot of ETF providers employ quants, and what do they you might you might think, okay, if it's as simple as you know, just replicate the index. Why? Why? What is there? Why are, what are the spawns doing? So if you look at it entire out of the 20,000,000,000,050% close to 50% is optimized. What is optimized means? Optimized means you don't invest in the entire portfolio, but you choose the securities in such a way that you have less tracking errors. Very important to know that there is a decent amount of pond that happens in this space. So just to reiterate, replication. Replication means, as an ETF fund manager, if your index, if your index has, let's say, 5000 securities, for example, and with various, various percentage for each of these 5000

Speaker 1  2:41:39  
as a fund manager, would you exactly replicate each of these 5000 securities? Would you replicate all 5000 if you replicate is it is full replication. But if you don't, you want some kind of a quant you want to pick the best at so that your your objective is what your objective at the end of it is, minimize tracking error. Minimize tracking error. So how you achieve this? Maybe you have the you have the flexibility, and you have to disclose this. By the way, any fund typically discloses the you can't say, I'll do full replication, and then you can't do optimize. So typically you have to, you have to specify this in the prospectus. Okay, last question, maybe, before we jump onto the models, which is probably for, for the most of the audience here, which ETF has the highest AEM in India? Maybe you can for those who are, who, at least, are in the Indian markets and track, maybe you can go, go at it. Just guess which ETF has the highest am in India, nifty 50. Nifty bees upon, nifty UTI, SBI. Any more old B's? Nifty 50 anymore? Any more responses? Just take a guess. There's so many. I mean, you people who are tracking Indian markets, nifty HDFC.

Speaker 1  2:43:17  
Let's look at just to get things rolling. Let me quickly show you as of

Speaker 1  2:43:30  
so as of 2025 and as of 2025 11, November, 11, 20th, November. So, active, yeah, which of this has?

Speaker 1  2:43:55  
So one of the couple of you have said SBI, which is actually the right answer? So it has about $24 billion as of November 28 so this is, I mean, think about the rise also. I mean, it was launched probably 10 years ago. In 10 years, it has grown into 24 billion so anyway, the idea was to just show you some numbers. And so this number stick in your mind, and then it will give you more exposure, or at least idea of what kind of replication strategies are done, why tracking error is important, and so on and so forth. Okay, so what we'll do now is to actually move on to the last section. Again. I've put in some numbers. These numbers are stale, as I said. I cannot circulate the recent numbers because of commercial implications. But anyway, I've discussed all these numbers. I think you should, should have gotten decent idea of what how the market is. As you can see, it has been massively growing just in 2024 5 trillion, which is which has never happened in the past $5 trillion increase in eight. Am in a year, it has never happened. And it's going to, given the ETF adoption, it's going to, I don't see it's going going down. Okay. So now what we'll do is, in this section, I'm going to talk about three different kinds of models. One is low frequency, one is mid frequency, one is high frequency. And this will also answer some of the questions that have come up, which is, why do we need to, you know, why can't we just invest in mutual funds? Why not? What is the advantage of ETFs? Anyway, they're just tracking one index. Was a big deal. I probably go and invest in mutual funds. So we'll start off with the first thing, which is a low frequency model, which before that just some context, what I'm what you're seeing on my screen. This image, I picked it up maybe 20 years ago. I think from Andrew Low is an MIT mathematician who used to run a hedge fund. He writes fantastic financial research articles. So this he mentioned in a presentation 20 years ago, actually, he said that time, of course, that time 20 years ago, the market was just beginning to take off, ETFs. He said, Whatever I'll find today. You can think of, maybe it's it's being delivered by some fund manager in a few years time, in a decade or so, you will find betas to replicate that. So you can think of any alpha, you will find an ETF to replicate that. What it means is, like, one of the questions was, whatever the fund manager, whatever strategies that the fund manager is using, asset allocation strategy, balance strategy, this for every such strategy today, you have an ETF. Of course, it depends on geography to geography. In some markets, it is definitely possible where, especially in US and Europe markets, you have ETF for whatever flavor that you can think of in terms of your investing strategy. So the question comes, why should, why should you pay a lot of money to invest in mutual funds when you can get the same kind of returns in a, in a in a vehicle which is much cheaper? So the context of this is that, you know, I'm sure some of you would have, if you have done some kind of a financial MBA, or some finance reading, you might know this one factor model. And in plain English, what it says is, you know, most of the market, most of the returns from your portfolio are explained by market. Now, there have been further models where they have said that, you know, there are more than one factor. There's a market factor, size factor, value factor, so all of these, what they're saying is they're saying, don't invest in individual stocks. Maybe there are some factors that are driving in your portfolio performance, and just invest in those stocks. So that's the basic idea of this factor models. And over a period of time, these factor models have become very, very popular and as an investing strategy. Now, in this context, I want to mention one come one firm. I'll just show the numbers so that you can do

Speaker 1  2:48:29  
so this is a company called dimension fund. You can, you can, you can read up on this fund. This is a fund which which believes massively into this factor model, kind of an investing and this is the ETF portfolio as of 2025 they have about 250 $6 billion so think about it. It's about close to, you know, 10 times more than SBI, just one company. Yeah, a dimensional fund. So how do they what do they believe? They believe that factors drive investment philosophy, and they they offer factors as the as a portfolio for their investors. The point I'm trying to make is they don't believe in selecting individual stocks and all of that. They believe in certain themes that are driven, that are driving the portfolio, and they invest in and in this context, I want to, want to mention one one book, which probably you might probably read it in a, you know, in probably a couple of hours. So what you're seeing on my screen is a, is a book called Incredible Shrinking alpha. So this, this is about maybe 100 100 or 200 pages book you can it's very easy. It's light to read. You can pick up this book and read in a couple of hours on any Sunday afternoon or something. But the point of this book is it says goes into extreme detail on why today's traditional mutual fund managers, traditional long only funds, or long these the traditional Alpha seekers, why they have lost up and. It's an interesting book. I don't want to give away the actual need of the book, but the idea is, on a day, the reason why a lot of money is moving into passive from active is because the fund managers are finding it extremely difficult to beat the benchmarks. So if you have time, please do read that book. So again, I've given some basic idea of what factor models are. I mean, the point is that I wanted to highlight one specific thing which came out of the question, one of the questions that you asked, which is, why should I invest in, you know, why should I invest in why can't I invest in individual stocks? Why should what is the point in investing in ETFs? So to us, I have done a simple example. Again, you can do this. You don't depend on me at all. You can all of this is available data. You can do it by yourself. I've taken 130 stocks from CNX, 200 and what I've done is I have, I've taken four factors, you know, in Indian market, again, Indian market specific, you can the more advanced market you have, the easier available data it is. You can, you can take the four factors, you can just run a simple regression of each of these stocks and figure out what is r square. So r square, what does it give you have four factors, and you might say, Okay, where do I get this data? So I have given you a link in the appendix. There is a, there is a fantastic website maintained by I'm Ahmedabad professor, jayantwama. So you can look at his website, where he gives out factor factor data for free. He computes the data and then he keeps out for free. Of course, you have, if you have access to third party data providers, you can get factor data. All I have done is I've just done a simple regression between the stock return and what is the x axis. X axis is the various stocks, 123, so these are 130 stocks for each of the stocks, this is adjusted R square when you regress with the four factors, what you see is interesting. There are some factors. There are some categories or sectors where, you know, pretty much four factors capture a sizable amount proportion of explained variance. So for example, you see this, IT sector is about 70, 75% is explained by four factors. So the point is, would you want to take an idiosyncratic risk by investing in one specific or two specific stocks in IT sector, or you want to just go with the four factors again, there could be examples. There could be places where the four factors are not available, but I'm at a high level. This is what is driving the philosophy of retail investing in ETFs. They're they're thinking that, look, why should I invest in individual stocks when I can get a well, a factory TF, which, which responds much better than the individual stock. So this is one of the driving factors. And you don't have to believe me my words, you can just look at this example of companies like dimensional and funds like JP you know, even JP Morgan has, if you look at JP Morgan, that's another example which I wanted to talk about.

Speaker 1  2:53:09  
JP Morgan. Look at the way JP Morgan has grown, in terms of you know that their AM, they were hardly they had about one, about 100 billion in 2022 and now they're about close to three, 20 billion. Lot of action is happening because they themselves see that. You know this, this space has lot of value in terms of, you know, selling it to investors. So this is the first set of models, which, which, which banks are exploiting, which fund houses, like dimensional advisors are exploring. Lot of companies are exploiting. Okay, again, I've done the same thing for a couple of couple of mutual funds. You take any of these funds, they're slightly dated, you don't have to believe me, take all of take any of, let's say, your favorite funds, take any of your favorite funds, regress the returns with four factors and see how much of significant, how much of variance is explained by these four factors. You you yourself will believe or not believe what I'm saying. It depends completely. You can crunch the numbers by yourself. Okay? The second aspect, by the way, just an apology. I'm running late, but I don't want to rush these things. So kindly bear with me, and please stay with me for about maybe five minutes or 10 minutes extra, because I don't want to rush and get this done. So what where we are? We are in the second type of trading model. And this is where, you know, it is slight, it's mid frequency. Now, this kind of a model was, was made popular by robo advisors. I'm sure some of you have heard this term, and some of you would have even worked for these forms or even track this one. So who are robo advisors? So these are the these are the fintechs of the world who came about maybe a decade ago. And these. Guys said, Look, we will offer an advisory, which is a robo advisory, meaning you come to us, you tell us how much risk and return you can how much return you can die, how much risk you can digest, how much return you want. And we will bake in a portfolio, and we'll rebalance them so the at high level. This is what their pitch was. We are a nimble company, and we have some sophisticated algos. I mean, I don't know how sophisticated they are, but they said, Look, you give us the dollars. And you mentioned, what is your risk and what is your return? I mean risk and a return and risk, and we will give you a portfolio. We'll give you a bouquet of portfolios, and you choose the portfolio, and we'll keep rebalancing. So these portfolio, these kind of companies, did well. When I say did well, they raised money, they got a lot of money, and I mean, they did, they did have a splash, but ultimately they got eaten, eaten by the banks, and right now they're all sitting behind banks, most of the big banking infrastructure. So having said that, there are still some fintechs which are doing well, but for the perspective of this discussion, what I want you to pay attention is how ETFs have played a role in this, in this space wherein it is a mid frequency strategy, what you do is you have a risk. You know what is the risk profile of an investor? You know the return profile, expected return profile, and then you create a you select ETF send to try to create a portfolio. Now how do you do that? Is there a math? Is there a stat to it? Of course, there is some bit of stats and math to it, but if you go by textbook, textbook way of doing things. So typically, you know, there is something called efficient frontier.

Speaker 1  2:56:53  
So this efficient frontier, you you'll find this mentioned in many of the books, many of the classic, you know, books on financial theory. And if you've done some MBA, you would have come across but this fades. This fails in real world. When you look at efficient frontier, if you take textbook version of it, and if you start implementing it, fails massively. And what I'm speaking is from my own experience of running a book, which, which, which, actually I use this so we, we did not go by the textbook way of doing. Of course, as you can imagine, there will be several what looks good on paper will not work. Will not work that well in the real world. So what we did was we, we dipped into some of these stats, or better stats, to capture this. So in the context of this, I'll mention one, one interesting book, which, if, if, if you're interested, please do read this book. It's called, it's called efficient asset management. And this is, this is a very old book, but the concepts are relevant, meaning you can, you can learn a ton of stuff on given a risk and return profile, how can you mix a set of ETFs and how can you come up with a statistically robust portfolio allocation? So if you have a chance again, please read this book. And the point I'm trying to make is, instead of drawing one efficient frontier, if you go to textbook, you'll you'll get one one frontier where you know for a risk return. You draw one front here, you draw, you simulate, and you you, you draw a efficient frontier surface. And based on this, you can select the risk and return, select the portfolios again. And I'm only merely mentioning this because if I get into this, this itself will take several hours to understand, but I've given you certain references for if you're interested, please go ahead. But my job was to actually at least introduce you to this thing which which has worked in the real world. It's not some theoretical stuff that I'm talking then the third example is, is, is on the high frequency space. Now, at this point in time, by in the session, in all the sessions that I've taken, this is a, probably one of the trickiest part, where participants are might not be so much interested in the math. So that's why I keep this section very short, for the simple reason that there is a lot of things that needs to be digested in order to make this, in order to make sense of this. So what I've what I've talked in, let's say one slide is, is, is actually a 15 page research paper I've given the given the reference in the appendix, you can have a look at it. It's a, it's a, it's a market making model which depends on, which depends on modeling the order arrival process. So what at a high level, what they do is they take, they take the limit order book, and they start modeling. This how the orders are coming. And this typically, if you have taken any or operational research or such kind of subjects, this usually comes in queuing theory, as you can imagine. You can look at a particular order book as a queue and then all the stats, all the math that happens. In queueing theory, you can start applying, for example, here you apply a Poisson process for order arrival cancelation. You take a Poisson process, and then you start fitting a process to fitting a stochastic process to it, and then you estimate the parameters. I don't want to get into the details of this, because this is not something is not it's not something which you can just read lightly. It'll take some time for anybody, not you, anybody, to understand what the paper is all about. So if you're interested, I have given a reference to this. This is the kind of HFT models that are employed by top firms to actually do a market, market making this space. So I know I've exceeded the time, but let me just recap in terms of what we have done again before going one of the things that I of course, have to mention is the rise of activities. So a decade ago, there was hardly any activities, but now, if you look at activity years, maybe I'll show you the numbers. So dollars.

Speaker 1  3:01:30  
So right now, if you this is the active ETF alien in the last whatever 20 years, you will see that 2025 has been a watershed here, because this is about $1.4 trillion sitting in active so these are not your ETFs where somebody creates an index and I'm going to, I'm going to free right on that index and offer that to my investors. These are instruments where one accompany a particular division of the company creates an index, another division offers an ETF on that on that index. So that's, that's the basic so what is the, what is the advantage of an active ETF? If I am in Goldman, I will one division of Goldman will create their index. Another division of Goldman will actually manage that index. So, of course, there's a China, Chinese wall between these two divisions. And, you know, all that is taken care of by regulators, but this space has exploded. Think about it. In 2024 it was point 8 trillion. It has grown to 1.4 trillion, massive jump, and this is going to go up only again. There are structural reasons why this active, why a lot of money is getting into ETFs. One of the reasons I think it's better. It's better that I mentioned this. This is industry specific. So Vanguard had a patent. So had a patent in terms of structuring its funds. Only Vanguard can could offer its mutual funds as an ETF share class. And this patent expired. Now lot of mutual funds are now taking a scheme, taking any, any scheme, and then they're offering an ETF version of that scheme. So which means, in the years to come, you will see a lot of money flowing into traditional mutual funds, which are operating, which are, which are operating an ETF scheme. This is, this is a massive development that has happened last year. I think Vanguard losing a patent is the patent expiry is a is a big event, because now any mutual fund can now offer ETF as a share price. So you will see a lot of activities in this space, lot of money going into the space. And this 20 trillion, let's see. Let's see how 2026 pans out. But I think a lot of money that's going to cook. So to summarize, maybe I'll just quickly summarize what we have done, because I that's the one way to, you know, look at how we have spent the last three hours. We have started with basic definition of index, how a cap weighted index is formed. I mean, this is we started with from the very scratch, of how cap rated index is formed. Then we looked at what are the kinds of funds available, mutual funds, open ended funds, closed ended funds, all kinds of funds. Then we looked at mutual funds, specifically in mutual funds. What did we look at? We looked at free rider problem or free liquidity problem. Then we looked at the tax, tax implications. And we said, because of these two, it was natural that somebody would think of a structure like ETF. And this happened in 1979 and then 1990 was when the spider came in. Spider first ETF came in. Then we looked at how primary market is so different. Is completely different from what probably. You would have come across in the earlier in other asset class, primary market means, in kind, you give basket, you give units, you get back units, or the vice versa. Then we looked at secondary market, secondary market, we looked at how arbitrages can. Can look at this primary market and secondary market, and then up. That's the key, and that's why, if you look at the nav, and you know how the nav and secondary market prices behave, they are in sync. Then we looked at, you know, certain, certain basic metrics. Again, the way we looked at metrics was, I didn't show you a bunch of slides. That's too boring. You had a chance to guess those numbers, and then you had a chance to look at those numbers. The idea is the numbers will stick that way. Then we looked at three kinds of strategies. One is low frequency, which is mostly factor model based. Then we looked at mid frequency, which is mostly an asset allocation based.

Speaker 1  3:06:00  
Then we looked at high frequency, which is mostly, you know, out of book based stochastic process. So, so this is the whole, you know, journey that we had. As I said, this stuck this. This whole three hours is, as I said, it's more to give you a perspective how this market is, and it's, of course, it's massively growing. So there are a lot of opportunities for systematic traders, for for retail for bonds, for investors, and as a group, there's a lot of lot of space, and, you know, opportunity to do stuff in this so that, having said that, I think I've exceeded 10 minutes. So thank you for all your time. I hope you found this session useful. And yes, one question about leverage ETF. So one of the questions, so for leverage ETFs, I have, I have a specific paper now, leverage ETF if you want to study there are two cues I want to mention. One is, there is a market which is the Korean and Taiwan market. Why? Because, if you I'll just

Unknown Speaker  3:07:03  
go to Asia show you one thing by country, number funds.

Speaker 1  3:07:11  
So if you look at the number of funds in Asia, Korea is, probably, is sec. You won't, you won't believe, right Korea, you know, but Korea has actually 714, funds, which is which is second largest. And look at Taiwan, just 239, so these two markets have lot of leveraged ETF instruments that have been introduced way, way before other markets in Asia. So this, this, this is a good place to study why this market took off, why people are investing in leverage, ETF and so on, so forth. A second is about the math. So I've mentioned a mentioned a paper. This is, I have some fond memories of this paper, because the research was done by one of my friends, and there is a professor who is no longer there, but fantastic. This was done maybe 15 years ago, but the math present in this paper will give you a sense of how leverage ETFs are constructed. And that will, of course, give you a much more, you know, much more bandwidth to figure out what, what to how to proceed in this space level, GTF itself is a big space, and I think these pointers will help you understand how do you go about? So with that, thank you for all your time and for listening to all this stuff I found, I hope that you found something interesting. And as always, we are always there. If you have any questions, please reach out to the team, and we will either respond you offline, or we will see how we can respond to you. More importantly, thank you very much for for the session and and as always, you're always there if you have any questions, thank you so much. Bye.

