Speaker 1  0:07  
Hello, everyone. So before we begin, please, can you guys confirm whether I'm audible and my screen is visible, so you should be able to see a Jupyter notebook with the title, Python tutorial, DMP, 01,

Speaker 1  0:30  
okay, and the font is like comfortable enough to read. I hope it's comfortable enough to read the font.

Speaker 1  0:41  
Okay, fine, okay, fine, okay, let's begin then. So Hello everyone. Welcome to today's tutorial session on dmp 01, so before we begin and let me just introduce myself briefly. So I'm manusha Rao, so I work here at quantity as a quant researcher with the EPACT content team, right? So let's get into today's agenda. So what all I'll be covering using the Python notebook here in front of you that you can see? So the first up is libraries, or the basic libraries that will be using, generally for your whole quant trading in your quant trading journey, which are useful and how do we fetch data? So we will be doing it using two methods here in this tutorial. One is by using Yahoo Finance. Why finance, which you would have covered in your dmp 01 lecture on and over the weekend. And also, how can you import data from CSV files? So, you know, typically, you might receive data from your brokers, okay, through in the form of CSV files. So how do you load that into Python and then convert it into a data frame, and then, you know, further use it for your specific purpose? So how do we do that? Then we will be covering steps in a vectorized back testing using a simple strategy. So here I'll be using a simple moving crossover strategy. So what law will typically do is we will go through the whole strategy life cycle. That is, how do you get the data, then how do you calculate the indicators? So in our case, it would be the Moving Average crossover then how do you generate the signals, then how do you calculate positions? And then, how do you calculate the returns of your strategy? Compare it with a typical buy and hold strategy. So basically, for example, so any strategy that you have in mind, you convert it into a set of rules. And then, of course, you want to evaluate how your strategy is doing. So that whole workflow will cover in short, so that you have a good idea as to how can you implement any strategy in Python. Then I'll be covering the difference between simple and log returns, so when to use what. So we'll try to touch upon that, and if time permits, I would just like to highlight the difference between what a vectorized back testing and event driven practice thing is. So this event driven back testing would be covered in your DMP, 03, and 04 lectures. So that would be like, so this would be a teaser for, you know, those or two lectures. And, yeah, so that's what that's about today's agenda. So, as you can see, the priorities to doubts concerning material covered in dmp 01, so priority to those doubts would be given. If you have any other doubts, of course, you can again, email us, and we would be happy to help. And also, as I mentioned, understanding the building blocks of basic vectorized back testing and a sneak peek into event driven back testing. So let's begin today's session. So as I mentioned, the first topic that we will be covering is libraries and data fetching. So by now, you guys would be very familiar with these libraries. However, I'll just talk about it briefly in one line. So import pandas is PD. So pandas is used for data analysis and manipulation. NumPy is used for working with arrays, linear algebra and matrices, operations. Our Date Time is typically a library which is used for manipulating dates and times, right and import why finance for our purpose. Here, what we'll be doing is for various stickers, we can download the Oh LCV that is open, high, low, close, volume data. So. So with the help of by finance library, we will do that and import warnings. Is another library which is used for if you want some so there would be some warnings which Python throws here, now and then in between. So if you want to ignore those warnings and you do not want to see it on the screen, we use this library, okay? Then, of course, then there's matplotlib, which is for plotting graphs and visualization. So for example, for a stock price or or your returns that you you want to visualize with respect to your strategy returns, with respect to cumulative, sorry, the buy and hold returns. If you want to compare both the returns, you can use a matplotlib. So this you guys are already aware of and are introduced to. Something else that I would like to introduce in this tutorial is another library which is used for plotting, which is, which is cufflinks. Okay, so what is cufflinks? Cufflinks is a library which acts as a bridge, okay, between the popular the the pandas library that you can see here. So it's it acts as a bridge between pandas and there is another interactive data visualization library in Python, okay, by the name of Plotly. I'm just typing it here. It's Plotly. Okay, so, so what happens is this, cufflinks makes it easy to create interactive plots directly from pandas data frame so you take the pandas data frame columns and just do dot I plot. So I will demonstrate this. You don't have to worry. But I'm just giving you an introduction to it. So with minimal code, you just use dot I plot, and you can create plots which are interactive in nature. Okay, so you will appreciate the difference between matplotlib and this Plotly once. I'll demonstrate it in the tutorial session as we go ahead. Okay, so this is a warnings, dot filter volume warnings, which says, ignore. That is ignore all the warnings, right? Fine. So let's get started. So as you can see on your screen, there are two variables that I have initialized, that is start date and end date. So just as a warm up, I would just like to know what would be the type of these variables, the start date and the end date. So

Speaker 1  7:53  
a I am not getting any response, so I'll just wait for another two seconds. So I just want, so could you guys just type in what would what is the type of the start date and end date variable?

Speaker 1  8:09  
Okay, okay, I'll give you a hint. Please note that there are these are round brackets. So if you remember from your PBQ 01 session that we covered, I had covered a set of data types, data types, there data structures. I correct myself, data structures. So in that there were a number of things that we looked at, list, pupils, data frames. There was dictionaries. Okay, fine. So it is a tuple. Why is a tuple? Because these are round brackets. Somebody is just mentioned list. So this would have been a list if I would have put a, sorry, a square bracket here, right? If it's a square bracket, then it's a list. If it's a round bracket, it's a tuple, right? Okay, so again, I'm initializing start date and end date as as you can see on the screen here. So what do you think would be the type of this?

Speaker 1  9:22  
Okay? Shivraj has a very good question, which I won't would want. I had to cover now, but just give me two seconds, I will cover and I'll show you what is the difference here. Okay, so this is a string, okay, that's correct. So if you see that, since this is enclosed in single inverted commas, or if it was even in a double inverted commas, this would be treated as a string. Okay, so Aditya says it's date time. Yes, I understand the format here is human readable. So for us, for for us, it is like, Okay, I know for a fact that this is date, but Python doesn't know. So to explicitly tell Python. Python, what we need to do is we have date time. So this dt is an alias for date time as as I have shown you here, right? So this is dt, dot, date. So that's so we are telling Python that create a date time type variable where the year is this month and date is this, right? So now, when I run this line of code and I say type, then it would be Date Time dot date, right? Simply by just, you know, declaring like this or a Python will not know that it is a date time object, right? I hope that's clear. So now what I'll do is I will initialize, I will initialize start date and end date as a tuple. Fine. So now in my start date and end date has this. Now what I'll do is I will pass this start and end date to my y finance, yf, dot download you. You would have seen this, right? Like so for nifty 50, the ticker is nifty 50, and what I'm gonna do is download the data for nifty 50 from Start Date end date. I'll just run this line of code and see okay. Here, please note that start date and end date is initialized as a pupil right now, tell me, would this line of code run successfully? Will I be able to download the data successfully from Yahoo Finance? Yes or no, so I want to download nifty 50 data. I have initialized start and end date as a tuple here. So do you think we can download the data successfully here? So Shreyas is asking me, why did you initialize start date and end date? I'm just we are just trying to understand. So somebody had asked me a question, so I just want to explain. So just tell me, would this data get downloaded or no successfully? Yes or no? Okay? Some says no. Some say yes. So let's run and see so tuple object has no attribute timestamp. So what this means is that now Python cannot interpret so this yf dot download function requires start and end date in the form in the form of date. So now we are giving it in the form of a tuple, so it doesn't understand. This function cannot recognize. This function needs it to be in the form of date time. So that's the reason why? Let's initialize now I'm running this line of code, which I've highlighted here, so that's a date time object. Now let me run and see this. And as you can see, it's successfully downloaded, right? Can you see one of one completed?

Speaker 1  12:59  
Okay? And then let's just do a sanity check. We just run DF, and you can see that. So money content is asking me, yes, but interval. So interval, see until and unless we don't specify, it will be daily data that it will give. So we will, we will come to even more granular intervals in some time. But for now this, if you give it just like this, then it will be daily data that it will download, right? I hope this is clear, right? So DF, we have successfully downloaded nifty 50 data from 2017 to 2020,

Speaker 1  13:38  
Yes, correct. So, okay, fine, let me just cover upon that also Jesse is like multi level index is equal to false. Okay, so this is handy, because I was always having problems with multi level indexes. That's correct. So what has happened is, previously, you know, like in Yahoo Finance, we used to not have any multi level indices, or it used to let me run this line of code. Now please note that I have just excluded multi level index is equal to false argument here. Let's try to run this line of code. And can you see here there are like multi level indexes here. So there is an extra row which says sticker NAC one right. Now, what happened is when Yahoo Finance got upgraded the library, so this was added, and because of this, there was a lot of issues while we were what you say, while you index the columns, column names and everything, right, it would the column name, in this case, would be close comma, nse one, high comma, NSC, one, so that that makes no sense, right? You have to always use this. So that's the reason why. What we you will have to add this extra argument saying multi level index is equal to false, right? So now, when you do that, please note now the ticker row will disappear. Right? So now this is a clean looking data frame, which we can use Shreyas. I hope that's clear what I was just trying to explain. I hope that answers your questions, right? Fine. So now let's just do a little bit of analysis, or rather get some information, like freshen up, or what all operations you can do on the data frame. So now, okay, here is my data frame. Now I want some information, so there is a dot info function. So if I just, if I just run this line of code, you can see that my index is a date time index, right? Because this is Date Time correct. Then I have how many columns. So, you know, indexing starts in Python from zero, so I have five columns here. The name of the column, null, non null. Values are there? 962, values are there? What are the types of each column, right? So this gives you some information about your data frame. Now tell me, what does DF, dot shape. Give me this line of code, DF, dot shape. What do you think would be the output of this?

Speaker 1  16:24  
Okay, I've got one answer. Amount of Okay, number of rows and columns, right? So this will return me a tuple with the first element in the tuple being a row and then a column. So there are five columns and 962, rows. So that is evident even from here when we just print the data frame, right? So, 962, rows into five columns. Fine. Now, DF, dot shape, one would give me the value of the number of columns or rows, just, just to understand, if you guys understood this. So, DF, dot shape, one would give me the number of rows or columns. Okay, somebody says rose, okay, please note the indexing in Python starts with zero, so DF dot shape, one would give me, these are rows and these are columns. So it would give me the number of columns, because since I all again in said that zero. So zero would give me the rows. One would give me the columns, right? Fine. So, DF, dot head, okay. DF, dot head, six would give me the top six rows, or the bottom six rows of the data frame. So,

Speaker 1  17:42  
it top six, right? So that would give me the top six rows. Okay, fine, so say that you would want, let me just

Speaker 1  18:07  
Okay, so I just first would like to understand, what if you guys know the difference between adjusted close and close prices. So can you just briefly type what? What do adjusted prices incorporate like? What is it adjusted for? What does it account for? The adjusted flows prices? So,

Speaker 1  18:45  
okay, yes, fine, correct, fine. So just for the people who don't know, so adjusted close price is very it's important for us in financial analysis, because it reflects a stocks true value. So what do you what do I mean by the true value? It means that also, there are a lot of corporate actions that happen right within with companies that is like dividends, or, you know, it gives out dividends. Then there are stock splits, then stock issuances, then there are mergers. There are a lot of corporate actions that happen, to name a few, right? So what happens is, these all actions do affect the stocks market price. So what happens is, in such cases, the close price is taken okay? So this, the close price is taken on on the particular day, and then it is adjusted backward for all the days like so it is adjusted for that particular corporate action. So if it's a stock split, one is to two, then they'll adjust it accordingly. You would have seen it even in the markets, right? So the stock price becomes half suddenly, and then it is again. It is retrospectively applied. So you can read a little bit about it, but I just wanted to touch upon what is the difference between adjusted close and close prices, right? So now I would like to understand. And from you guys that the clothes that you can see her, is this adjusted close price or a normal, unadjusted close price? Is it just close price or adjusted close price? Which, by which this platform that we can see from, why finance, is it adjusted or Okay, fine. So yes, people are saying just close price. So that is wrong. So let me clear that up for you guys. So what happens is now, with the new update in Yahoo Finance, the auto adjust. Okay. So there is a, there is argument that says auto adjust is equal to means automatically adjust all the prices, okay, adjust for all the corporate action. So these are all adjusted prices. Okay. Now, once I say auto adjust is equal to false. I hope this is clear, right? So what I'm doing, I am now saying that I want adjusted close price and close price and all these high, low, open prices, unadjusted as it is. So let's see. So can you see there is another, another column that is created that says adjusted close. This is close. Now here, since there was, since this is an index nifty 50 data that we have used, so there won't be any difference between the adjusted close and close, right, however, so when the moment we say auto adjust is equal to false. So this will have to explicitly mention if we want unadjusted prices here, okay, however, by default in Yahoo Finance, if I do not give this auto adjust and just do this, these are all the adjusted prices that we already get, right. So I hope that's clear, right? So the moment you say auto adjust is equal to false, then you will have all you'll have the close price and the adjusted close price given to you separately, okay, and then your high, low open high, low open prices are also unadjusted prices. They are not adjusted for corporate actions. However, if I just run this line of code, that means that by default, why finance considers auto adjust is equal to true. That means it will adjust all the prices for the corporate actions, and it is throughout this so this clause is basically adjusted close. This is what I wanted to let you guys know.

Unknown Speaker  22:58  
So,

Speaker 1  23:05  
okay, so now to get the to get any help for any function that we use in Python, I had mentioned there are two ways. One is by using a question mark, right? So if you do yf dot download, okay, yf dot download, question mark, then you would get this. And there is help. And within parenthesis, you give the function name, and it will give you the help on that, like it will give you how to use or what are the arguments that you require, what are the parameters? What are the types? Everything. It will give you all the information. So chandan is asking me, which one should be should be used. So chandan it is, it is recommended. So for long term analysis, and you know, like for longer time horizon analysis, we use generally adjusted close price. But however, depending on your strategy, it you can use close or adjusted close so. It will depend on your use case so, but typically, in our course, we generally go for adjusted close prices. Right Atharva, I will cover in place or dot drop in place is equal to true in some time. Okay? And then I'll come I'll come to that there, right? I hope this is clear. Fine. So now we have we downloaded for daily data. Now, say you want to calculate intraday data, right? So you want a interval of five minutes, as you can see here, five minutes data have given even in this help, right? You can see here, let me just show you see valid intervals. Can you see this part? So it says I can download for one. Month two, month five, month 1530, so on and so forth. One week, one month, three month, right? However, there is a limitation here that if you're downloading intraday data from Yahoo Finance, the requested range must be within the last 60 days. So it can give you only for a period of 60 days. If you go beyond that, it will throw an error. It cannot give you or data, then you'll have to go with other brokers, and intraday data is generally paid. So let's try to download this data and see right so now this has successfully downloaded. Now if you see, if I print, as you can see, at regular at five minutes interval, there is data here. So there is 0005, 1015, 20, right. Now say, Oh, if I just do it 61 and let's check, okay, fail. Download. The requested range must be within the last 60 days, right? So this is 16, right? So intraday data, fine. I hope this is clear. So this is for intraday data using y finance. Now, I would want to draw your attention to something which is called as this, okay, so this part, as you can see. So this is date, okay, this is date that you can see. Now, this part is the time and this is the time zone, the plus 0000, so can does anybody know, what is this 00, like? What time zone is this by default? What does Yahoo Finance gave

Speaker 1  26:47  
so Shreyas is asking me trading view you get intraday data for longer zone. So what is a code to download trading view data? So Shreyas, you will have to check either if they have an API that you can directly use in Python, just like by finance, or you can just take, you can download the CSV file of it and just load it into Python, and then you can use it. Okay, so somebody has said it's GMT, but let me, let me tell you the time zone is.

Speaker 1  27:21  
So the time zone here is UTC it stands for Coordinated Universal Time. Okay, so this is this plus 000, right? Is Coordinated Universal Time. Now what I want to do is, for example, convert it into your specific time zone right now, what you have to do is intraday data, dot index. What does dot index means? Because our daytime and the interview and the time zone is in the index part of the data frame. That's why I'm saying dot index is equal to intraday data. Dot index, what I have to do is convert tz. Tz, underscore, convert. This is a function, okay, used to convert it into the specific time zone. So in this Asia, Kolkata stands for play Indian. So the this is a place within India, actually, so which I have mentioned here. So let me run this line of code. Okay, and then can you see that time zone has changed here and when compared to this one, right? Fine. So now you will ask me, How will I get this list now? Okay, so for us, or UK, so on and so forth, right? So what you can do is there is a library called p y t z, okay. So you import it, and then what you can do is, p y t Z, from that library, there is a functionality saying all time zones, okay. So if you just run this, right, you will have all the so the country and the place, name, country, and yeah, so on and so forth. So there are a lot, so you can try this out conversion, right? So how to recollect which code to apply? Shreyas is asking me. So the thing is, it comes with practice. Okay, so, and also, if you should be aware of what functionality is there. But however, if you want to do this, p, y t, or p, y t, z, dot, and you press a tab right, it will at least give. What are the instances functionalities that exist within that particular module there? So even let it be so I had mentioned this even in the PBQ 01 session, where, if you have a set of lists or pupils, so you just say the tuple name, dot tab, and then all the related attributes and functionalities would come there. However, to know this, at least, you should have a basic idea of what you want to do and what functionality exists within that. So that comes with practice. Right again, intraday, dot head. So this is the intraday data that we just created and converted that time zone, then intraday or the shape. So there are 16,000 odd rows with five columns, right? So now what we checked here was, what we all saw now was we just saw some basic libraries. Then we saw how to download data from wife finance, right? And somebody had highlighted the multi level index. So I touched upon that how to what is the difference with and without the argument also, then I spoke about auto, auto adjust. So by default in Python, when you use yf dot download, auto adjust is by default, set to true. That means, whatever is the resulting data frame that gets downloaded, or the prices are adjusted prices for corporate actions. However, if you want, if you want an adjusted prices, that means that those prices are not adjusted for corporate actions, then you will have to explicitly mention or to adjust is equal to false, right? In that way, you will get your adjusted close price as a separate column, close price and your open high and low as an adjusted price. Right? Then we saw how to download intraday data. Right? Intraday data? How do we download intraday data from Yahoo Finance? Interval is only 60 days that you can the period. Sorry, the period is only for 60 days. You can download the data the intervals, as I mentioned, if you just press a help, you can get to know what intervals you can download, right and then how to get the time zone. How can you convert the time zone? So there is a functionality which I just mentioned. How do you get the list of all the time zones? Again, I show I've demonstrated that then, yeah. So we saw this part. Now, how do we download the data we have seen? This is one way using, why finance Now, the second way is that you have some CSV files, okay? And how do you then take that data from the CSV file and then put it into Python? Right? First, let me demonstrate downloading data from by finance, and then how do you save it to a CSV file? Let's first see that, and then we'll see the reverse. Okay, so again, let's go and download or ticker is equal to nifty 50. 50. Okay. Index data. I will store it in DF. One. I'll download the data. Now, can you see auto adjust is equal to false? I've put this here so please. Can anybody please? Can you just tell me? Will I get the adjusted close price column here or no? Yes or No? Will the adjusted close price be visible to me when I say auto adjust is equal to false, okay? Shubham says, yes. Money content says, no, okay, let's see. So I will get it. So that means it's, it's, it's like plain English. So for people who are getting confused, let me maybe make it a little clearer. So it says that auto adjust. What is auto adjust? So automatically adjust my prices for corporate action. You can think of it like this. So here, in this case, I'm saying false. That means please do not do it. So that means don't adjust it and give me close price and adjust it, close price separately, right? I hope that makes it a little clearer, right? And yeah. So then I have this DF one. Now what I'll do is, now I want to write this data, this whole data, this 962, rows and six columns into a CSV file. Okay, CSV file is Excel, right? So what I do is dF one is my data frame. Okay, so DF one, so there is a functionality which says to CSV, this function to underscore CSV. What do I have to do? I have to put, I have to say that convert this DF one into a CSV file and name the CSV file as this. Is. So this name can be anything. So this part as which I've highlighted, this can be anything, ABC, XYZ, whatever name you wish to give that file, you will have to give that dot, CSV, all right. So now, before I run this, I would like to show you something here. So this is the folder from which I'm running right now here, you can see there are only two i, p, y and b files here, right now. Once I run that line of code, you see what is the difference. Okay, so let me run this line of code. Okay. Now let's go to that. Can you see there is a CSV file which is created with the name that I mentioned in the brackets there right. I hope this is clear. Okay. Screen is aligned. Is this okay? Now? Can you see my screen clearly? No.

Speaker 1  36:07  
So what you can do is you can download this data, download this file, saying, download. And then you can see it's a CSV file. It will open in Excel, and you can see it. So this is writing a data frame into a CSV file. Okay? Still a little left align, but this is in, I mean, I have zoned it out Max, so I don't know.

Speaker 1  36:40  
Fine. Okay, so now what we saw is writing our data frame into CSV file. Now what we'll do is we will convert the CSV file into data frame. So we will read the CSV file which we already have into a data frame. Okay, so for that, what we'll do is, so we already have this file here, DMP, 01, tutorial, data, nse, save dot, CSV, right? So what we'll do is we will read that file. Now, how do we read it? There is a function called PD, dot read CSV. So that is, read the CSV file into the pandas data frame. Okay, so in which data frame, in DF, one will read it. So which file do we have to read? We'll have to give the name of this file. So let's just read this file back right, this same file which we created, we'll read it back into the data frame. So now we have this so we have read the file now, DF, one is here. Okay, now, so this is what we have read. Now, I would like to understand from you guys what is the difference between the data frames that we saw till now, which we downloaded from why finance, and this data frame that you can see here on the screen which we just read. So this is the data frame which we downloaded from Yahoo Finance, okay, this, and this is the data that we just so it's the same data, but we have just read it to a CSV file, and then we have again, read it back into this data phase.

Speaker 1  38:34  
Okay, just waiting for two more x i Okay. Index different. That's correct. Fine. So as you can see here. Now the index says 01234, so on and so forth. Now, date is a column itself. It's not an index here, right? So date, as you can see, is an index is a column itself. So What? What? What we'll do is, we'll just do DF, one, dot, info. Now, can you see it says range, index is the index, so it's not a date time index. Why is this a range index? Because it says entries from zero to 961, now here, as you can see, date has come under the column name. So and now you see there are seven columns here, right? So what I would want to tell you here is when you're reading, okay when you're reading from a CSV file into your data frame, Python does not know what it should interpret which column as an index. So now that we have to specifically tell Python that okay, please treat date as index, Date column as index, and some other instructions that we would want to give it. Okay, so let's see how we can do that. Okay, I'll cover this part in some time. First, let's finish this. So let's say okay that I want to read this. C. SV, read CSV, DMP, the same file. Now index call is equal to zero. Now, what does this say? What does this specify? Please consider the zero at because date is in the zero at column here, right for us. For us, zero is the so had date been here, okay, instead of adjusted close if date was here, that would have been column number one. So then we would say index call is equal to one. However, now, since our date is in the zero at column, we would say that, okay, treat. So this, this, this argument will tell Python that three make the column number zero as the index of this data frame. I hope that is clear, so let's run this line of code. Okay, and then we'll do the info of that. So now the data frame name is dF one from CSV. So let's do the info. Now, can you see that my date has gone from here and my adjusted close is the zero at column. And now my index, as you can see, still doesn't say date, time index. It's a simple index, and the values are ranging from this. So now our index has become date. However, now Python still doesn't know these are dates. It still doesn't know for us, yes, seeing the format, we can say that these are dates, but we have nowhere specified that this is a date, right? So what we can do is, there is a next there is another argument which says past dates is equal to true. So what does this argument do? It tells pandas to automatically convert date like columns. Okay, so if there are any string types, and if the format is matching the date time something like this, then convert it into actual date time objects. So now, once I run this right and do the info. Can you see it says date, time index now, and the values are here, and this exactly looks like the data frame, which is downloaded from wi finance, right? I hope this is clear. So in this section, what we saw is that how to if we have certain data in a data frame like suppose from why finance we have downloaded, how do we write it to CSV file, using two CSV and what if we have a CSV file? Okay, how do we read it into a data frame? And how do we set the index? How do we set the index? And then how do we do some manipulation? That is, if there is a date column, how do we tell Python that it is a daytime object? So what are the arguments for that? So that we saw here. So

Unknown Speaker  43:07  
so somebody is asking me,

Speaker 1  43:15  
use index use The label instead of index ID. Just a minute.

Unknown Speaker  43:30  
Okay,

Speaker 1  43:50  
me, just a minute, guys,

Unknown Speaker  44:04  
right? So in read CSV, right? Let's search for index call so.

Speaker 1  44:30  
So somebody had asked me use, let's not waste time here. So they asked me to use the name of the column, right? So let's see if it runs, okay, and then, right, so it does run. So you can use either the index number, so the column number, or the name of the column itself, right? So. So let me just open the chat box. Give me a second.

Speaker 1  45:22  
Right? Fine. So, yeah, one thing that I wanted to highlight here was, so when you are reading the file, okay, so here, in this case, my CSV file was in the same directory where my code was running, so my code is running. This is my code which is running, so it's in the same folder. So that's the reason why I could just directly write the name of the file. However, say your file, the CSV file, is somewhere in your downloads, or some other, some other, some other place it's stored. So you can give the the Oh, the the complete part of your CSV file from there. Okay, so if you're just using single slashes like this, then you'll have to use this R. You have to precede it with R. Otherwise, Python treats this as an escape sequence. So this is, this is a way that you can specify the path. So in single inverted commas the path, and then you precede it with an R. Or if you do not want to give this r, right, you just use

Unknown Speaker  46:34  
two of these lashes. That's it. So sorry, you'll have to use two of these lashes then, right?

Speaker 1  46:43  
So this is when your CSV file is not in the current working directory. So Shreyas is asking in CSV, do we need Date column separately for analysis? So that depends on your use case. So for example, in this right? In this case. Now we need, we need this date column because, for example, if you're recording some trades, right, so on which date that has happened, or, for example, the trade happened on so and so date and at what time. So maybe if you want that data, then you have to extract right. So depends on your use case. So R is basically telling Python that do not So Python will treat this. So so we know that this is a like, what do you say a file path in Windows, but however, Python treats this as an escape sequence, right? So if you do not put this right, it treats, it will not treat this as a path, it will not go to this particular path and retrieve the CSV file. So because of that, we have to use this R so that's the syntax that you have to use to tell Python that please consider this as a directory path and retrieve the CSV file. Fine, let's move on. Okay, so a little bit brushing off on lists. So now this, I have initialized this as a list. Now I would want to know that what would be the output of this quickly, I'll just give two seconds. What would be number list into threes output? Would it be multiplication of each element. So would it be three, 633, 6615, all the numbers by three. Okay, fine. So again, I had mentioned this in graphq, 01, so this would be list repeated three times. So this operation of, you know, multiplying each element by three is not possible with lists. So for us to perform this operation, we have to convert this list into an array. So now array is a part of the numpy library, so np dot array, so number list to array, I'm converting it. So using NP, dot array, and what do I want to convert? I want to convert this number list. So let's convert it now. See this. Can you see now it says array, and I have this same numbers. Now I can do the multiplication into three. So that is three, 633, 66, right. Right. Now. So this is like a vectorized operation. You can treat this as a vectorized operation. Now, what do I mean by vectorized each value? So this multiplication by three, which I which is done right? It is done concurrently, like simultaneously. It is done right at one go. It is just multiplying and giving you now that is vectorized operation. Now, what is event driven back testing that I was talking about? What is event driven so each row or each element is iterated and multiplied. So, for example, in the array, we can do this vectorization that is concurrently, right? However, if. A list, if I wanted to do the same operation that is, multiply each element with three, then what I would have to do is, in case of a list, I'll have to iterate it using a for loop. So now can you see here, for value in number list, what is my number list? Number list is my list here. So iterate through this list, and each iteration you multiply by three. So now if I do this, can you see this? Three, 630-366-1518, 24, we have got our output. However, this is done each element wise, this is not done concurrently. It like goes through each element one by one, okay? After this is done, then two, then 11, then 22, then five, so on and so forth. Right? Now, this will become evident when once I will once I want to cover vectorized and event driven, right? So this is just a like introduction to it, right? So I, I hope you understood what, what I mean by vectorized operations. And this is, like event driven you can just think of it like that. So this is the same this is another example that I took here. So is the same thing done? So you guys can just take a look at it. So as I just mentioned, right? So what is vectorization? Is like you take a vector. So that was our array that we took, and that was multiplication by three. It is done concurrently to give the output, right? Now, let's apply this vectorization. Vector is back testing for a typical strategy. Now, where does this come into picture? I will explain you when we are back testing a strategy, right? So let's see what are the steps that I'll cover in the vectorized back testing. First is the strategy and idea, then the data, indicators, signals, positions, returns, analysis. So we will cover all these steps using a moving crossover strategy, a simple moving crossover strategy, where we'll have the short moving average and the long moving average, and at their crossovers we will buy or sell. Okay, so the the conditions are very simple, so you will go long, okay, when you're short moving average, today short moving average is more than the long moving average, and yesterday's short moving average is less than yesterday's long moving average. So if these two conditions are true, then I'll go long. Vice versa is true for short. This is very simple, like so Chandan, the code file would be uploaded on the LMS so you don't have to worry. Just follow what I'm trying to explain. And then you can go through the notebook, right? It will be uploaded. Fine. So this is a strategy, so now let's implement the same so first would be so these are some notes you can go through. So let's first download the data. So now, in this case, the ticker that we are using is the nifty 50 itself. Because if you remember the ticker that we used, I initialized as nifty 50, I'm not scrolling up because it it kind of irritates the eye, so that's the reason why I'm not but the ticker here is nifty 50. However, if you just want to do if I if I have to just print it. So this is the ticker that we are using. So let's download the data again, using ticker start, Date, End, date, multi level index is equal to false. So let's do a sanity check. We just printed the head, so this is all what we just covered. So I'm going a bit fast here right now. Let's define the look back period. So that is what is look back period, the moving average windows. So for what is the look back window, for the short moving and long moving. So for short moving, here we've considered 21 and long, long window as 63 so this, you are free to choose. This is just arbitrarily taken. You can take whatever you wish to right. Now, let's calculate the short moving average and the long moving average indicators. Now what do you do? You take the close price, then you do a dot rolling. Dot rolling means every 21 Windows you'll have to roll like 21 when. So it will be like first day to the 21st day, right? It will take the average, then it will take from the second day to 22nd then third to 23rd so it will roll and take averages. And what it will do it will take the average means mean. So dot mean is taking the mean of every 21 days window. Next is long moving average. That means for. 63 so 63 days average, it will take and start printing. I hope this is clear, because this was covered in DMD 01 session. I don't think there's an issue here, right? So rolling is basically taking rolling windows and calculating the average for that particular look back period, right? So let's run this line of code. So can you see we've plotted here also, or just for you guys to understand, let me just also print data once. So there should be columns created here, which is SMA and LMA. So in case of SMA, the first 21 rows would be null, because there won't be any values average created. Because for me to create a mean, I need 21 values, and for this 63

Speaker 1  55:57  
so sir manikantan is asking, since we are taking moving averages of market price, will it be better to take adjusted so what we are doing here is adjusted, so this is historical analysis that we are doing for a long time period, then it is suggested to take adjusted close prices. So this, what we are using here, is adjusted close itself. So right? So this is data, right? And then let's do dot I plot. Now, this is the cufflinks part that I was talking so what it does is it helps us to use the data, call the data frame columns as it is the names, and just do a dot I plot. So this is a Plotly library that I was talking about. Can you see the difference between this? Okay, so this is a very static graph that you can see here, right? Nothing I can do, but if you see this graph now, okay, if you let me remove this, yeah. So if you see, just give me a minute please. Yeah. So if you see this graph here, I can zoom in, I can just I can zoom in, I can hover over, and I can see that it's giving me some values, or it's giving me the name of the column which it is printed, which is close in orange, then the date. You can zoom in, zoom out. Pan. There are so many functionalities. So this is more interactive for me, right, rather than the static graph that I can see with matplotlib. So this is output of matplotlib. This is output of I plot right, and you can export it, right? So that's what I wanted to cover with respect to I plot. So these are more interactive and more explanatory in nature. So then let's print some SMA and LMA. So these are the crossovers that we are talking so here would be a buy or a sell depending on the conditions, right? So heat, I will explain. Ema, just give me a minute. Let me just complete this part, right? Otherwise it will break the flow. So now what we did is, first we calculated the data, SMA, so that is for today's today. SMA, now we have another condition where we have to calculate yesterday's SME, right? So for that, what we do is dot shift one operator. So this SMA previous day would have yesterday's sma's values. So are you guys clear with the dot shift operation? Why do we do dot shift one so can you see here that there are columns which are created, sma previous day, LMA previous day.

Speaker 1  58:56  
So could you plot bio cell signal, Mark and Plotly Shreyas? I will demonstrate that in some time we do have plots for that. I'll do it Okay, so dot shift. No. Somebody's asking me, Is shift the same as log? No, where are we using log? Here, there is no log. Shift is simply okay. Let me demonstrate here. It was demonstrated in the DMP class, right? So, for example, I have, I have safe. These are very random values that I'm just typing. Okay, so this is, suppose my SMA, take care this. Oh, sorry. Oh, this is SMA. Now, if I do SMA, dot, shift one. What is shift one? Shift one means shift by one place. So that means here, it will be 15, okay, this would be two, this would be three, this would be three, this would be four, right? So what we're doing is, if this is day one, okay, so say this is day. One. Okay, this is day two, this is day three, day four, day five, day six. Now, if I'm comparing, right? So now what is happening is, suppose this is day one. Now, the moment I do SMA, dot shift one. In this case, what is happening is, I'm, I'm, I'm saying that today's SMA and this is yesterday's SMA, right? Is this clear? 15 is day one's SMA, which is shifted here. So shifting is just shifting these values by one place down, yeah. Lag one, correct, okay, yeah, correct. Lag one, that's right, right. So that is oh, so we've calculated previous SMEs. Okay, now we have created the columns required for creating our signals correct. So now what we have to do is, I do not want this any n values. These are very irrelevant for me, right first, so let's drop all the rows which have any n. Now, somebody had asked me, What does in place is equal to true means, right? So what I'll do is, let's see it. Okay. So now this is my data frame as it is. Now I do data. Dot drop any.

Speaker 1  1:01:19  
Let me run this now, this is done. This is done right now. Let me print data again and just show you. Can you see the n values are still here. Okay, so however, now what if I do in place is equal to truth, okay? And now if I press data, can you see my na and values are gone. So that means that drop the NA values Nan values in place is equal to true. Means make this change permanent. You can think of it like that In layman terms, that when you drop those rows, keep it permanent, right? And then we do a data dot head and like, just a sanity check. So as you can see, there are 899, rows because we have dropped, however, before dropping or there were 962 rows. Okay, so 962 rows have reduced to 899, because we've dropped those NAND rows. Now let's create the signals. So, as somebody had asked me, now these are the crossovers, right? So where it would be buy and cell. Now you will see two blocks of codes. Okay, I'll just show you. So does inline apply to every DF dot function. So I'm assuming you're saying in place is equal to true. So that is for so that is a parameter for the drop. Na, creating a lag is deliberate in order to get clear signals. Using shift one can be used to calculate percentage change, but if not, so Chandan, What? What? What we are doing by using shift one is for this purpose, which I just demonstrated, was to get in the same role the today's SMA along with yesterday's SMA. For now we are doing that. What you're talking I will explain that also in some time. Okay, okay, so here what we are covering is okay. Somebody had asked me, okay, if I run this line of code, can you see these are all the crossovers, bearish, bullish. Bear is bullish. So this code, I'm not going to explain in detail, okay, because this is just, it's self explanatory. So what you need to do is extract all the locations where the crossover condition is true. Okay, and then you use, there are a lot of functionalities for plotting. So in this case, this arrows, and also show arrow is equal to true, and what you want to write there bearish or bullish crossover. So all that you can specify here, so you can go through this code, but if you find any issues you can write to us. So this is one way of showing that. This is another way where you can show dots. So wherever there is a bearish crossover, it's a red dot, a bullish green, bearish, red, bullish, green, so on and so forth. So this is also the code for that again, so you iterate through all the rows wherever the condition is true for a long and wherever the condition is true for a fall for a short you will just specify in the plotting what you need to do. Like Do do you mark it with a red or a green? I'm not covering this in detail because we don't have much time, but this is just a. A way, there are different ways of plotting. So these are two ways which look really good for us also to understand that, okay, there are four long and there are four short signals here, right? Okay, so now what we'll do is we will now create signals. Now, what is the condition for our long crossover, that today's SMA, if today's SMA is greater than today's LMA, so SMA short moving average, and this is long moving average. So if it is more than the long moving also yesterday's SMA. So that dot shift was to get this values. Okay, so for SMA and LMA, so if yesterday's SMA is less than yesterday's LMA, then if these two conditions are true, then go long that is one. Otherwise populate that column signal with zero, right for now. So NP, dot where, again, was covered in PBQ, 01, so this is just like it's equivalent to if so that means that if today's condition, which is this and and so both these conditions have to be satisfied for me to go long, otherwise, keep it zero. So this signal column for now would have values. Now. What would be the output of dot value counts here. So how many values? How many unique values does signal hold? Now the signal column from this line of code. So after I run this line of code, if I do data signal dot, value counts, value counts will give me the count of all the unique values occurring in that column. Okay, number of signals, that's correct. But what are the signals here? Is it 1010, minus one, or only one? What are the values that this signal can take? One and zero. That's correct. So it will give me the count of how many zeros and how many ones. As you can see this, you can also, again, verify with the plot that we just saw that there are four long signals greens. So that's why I've got one now. Why only this much? Because now, for now, we've only coded long now short crossover is the same. It's just the exact opposite. Everything is exactly the opposite. Can you see here these signs are reversed? Again, I use NP, dot where. Now in this case, what happens is, when this condition is true, I have to populate the signal column as minus one. Otherwise, just populate whatever are the values existing in the signal column. So only for when this condition is true, the short condition. So in that case, wherever the zeros or the zero at, wherever the zero was populated. For certain rows where that short condition is satisfied, zero would be replaced by minus one, right? So now in this case, data signal would have an extra value, which is minus one again, which is again evident, which has four values from this graph, that there are four short signals. I hope this is clear. Now we have created our signals. Okay, so can you see that at this point it's a bearish, so that's why I'm going short here. It's a bullish. So I'm going long, short, long, exactly at the crossover, short, long shot right now. So now we have created the signals. Now it is assumed in this strategy that I will hold this I will hold this position until I encounter the next opposite signal, right? So until I go long here, I will hold the shot. Okay. Then what happens is I will then go into the long position, hold this long position until I encounter my next shot. I'll close it, then go to the short position. Then hold this short until my long right. This is what it is. So this is my position. I'll be holding this position until I encounter the next signal, right? So now for me to code this, this positions part, this is the next thing that we are going to do. I hope this is clear. We have generated signals now we are going to create positions. Now what we need to do for positions is we take the signal column. And can you see the signal is zero, value is zero, until here, right? So what we need to do is we'll have to just fill signals the signal column with. Now this would be what minus one. Until here, and then it would become one, then this would remain one, and then when it encounters the next minus one, it has to fill those minus ones with again, minus ones, then the then one, then replace all these zero values with one, so on and so forth. So that's the reason why what we do is data dot signal replace. What do we have to replace zero values, right? And what is the method that we have to use every for people who get confused, I can just explain you in short what that means. So for example, this is your signal column, okay, so if it is 01000,

Speaker 1  1:10:47  
okay, and this is minus one and 000, and zero, right? Now I do an F fill. So forward, fill, what do I have to replace zero, right? So this first zero is of no significance, because there's no value here. Now what I do is, now this is this will remain one. Now, from here onwards, what zero? Which zero I have to replace zero? So I have encountered a zero with, what do I have to fill with this one? So I will fill it with one forward fill. This is called forward fill. Right next, it encounters a minus one. Since I have to read I have told Python that I have to replace only zeros. So I will, I will keep minus one as it is. Again, I have encountered a zero. However, I have to now replace this zero with the previous value, which is minus one. So it will go with minus one, minus one minus Yes, forward fill is equal to f will, right? That's correct. I hope that's clear. So now what I'll do is, I'll do this data positions, data value counts, and let's plot now. So the the drawing that I did in red, that's what we wanted, intended to do. And now, through this code, we have got this right. I hope this is clear. Now what we'll want to do is now we have done the signals positions. Now let's calculate the returns, which is the most important part for a strategy. Now, as you guys are already aware buy and hold return means that if you simply just hold like you buy on this particular day and then hold it for those two years, or whatever is the time period that we are considering, three, four years, what would be the passive, unrealized daily return. So that is what you take the daily prices and do a percentage change every day, right? So that is your simple buy and hold returns. What would be your strategy returns? Strategy returns would simply be, this is your position, right? You hold your positions that that's the reason why we have calculated this. So you have to just multiply your position column with buy and hold returns, but with a dot shift two. Now, are you guys familiar with why we are doing this? Dot shift

Speaker 1  1:13:14  
two? I'm just waiting for confirmation. Shreyas is saying no. Okay, fine, okay, let me just cover Okay, yeah, to avoid look ahead bias. That's correct, that's correct, fine, so let me just cover it quickly, right? So let's take one example. Let's take from here itself, right? So this was the DMP class working. Okay, so here see now you have your positions say your signal is generated. Okay, so your position is so your signal was generated here, fine, okay, okay, your signal is generated here as you so assume that this is a moving crossover strategy that you've taken, okay, and your signal was generated. Okay. Now what happens is, so this is on fourth of January. Signal is generated at a close price. Now tell me something that on this particular day when the signal is generated, can you trade on that day itself? On fourth of January? Can you trade on that day itself? Yes or no, you cannot. So that's the reason why. What happens is, once this signal is generated, I will take the trade on the next day, which is fifth of Jan. So that's the reason why we do a signal. Dot shift one, right? Signal.or shift one. That's why we shifted it by one. So basically, we are taking this signal the next day, which is on Fifth of Jan. This is clear right now, what will happen? Here is on that particular day. Okay, on that particular day, my close price is 134, point or six, eight. Assume you have taken the trade at this price right now and say you continue to hold it till the next signal that you encounter, or, let's say that you hold it for one day itself. Okay, whatever be the case, right? So 130 4.81 is the price at which you bought. Now, if I want to calculate the returns for this trade, okay for this trade, so the daily percentage change would be 136

Unknown Speaker  1:15:48  
so the next day, which is 130 6.03 okay, minus 130 4.81

Speaker 1  1:15:55  
divided by 130 4.81 would be the percentage Change for this particular trade. Am I clear what I'm trying to say? So when I take the trade here and assume the daily percentage change would be the next days minus this days, right? So for that percentage change, Okay, where is that percentage change coming here. So this is this minus this. So now where is that value occurring here? So now I have to actually shift it by two places to actually get this return. I hope I'm clear what I'm trying to say here. Please let me know if this is clear or no. So that is the reason why we do a dot shift two to get the desired so see, so far, somebody is saying to repeat, or let me quickly repeat. We don't have much time. So this is my signal. Signal is generated on fourth of January. Vishwanathan is asking, would I not buy at open price the next day rather than close price? Yes, you can do that. But for this strategy, we are assuming that we are buying it at the close prices. Okay, fine. So, so for Jan, I have generated the signal. However, since these are close prices that we are dealing with. I cannot take a position that day, so I take on Fifth of Jan, okay, fifth of Jan, I have taken the position. That means that I will buy at 130 4.81 however. Okay, however. Now what is happening is 130 4.81 now I want to calculate the daily return for this particular sick for this particular signal you can take. You can consider that. Now for that, what happens is to calculate the daily percentage I will need the next day's close price also. So that is 136 right? So now that would be what, 130 6.093 minus this price which I bought, divided by 130 4.81 right. Now that percentage change is reflecting where here can you see? So this is this minus this divide minus one means divided by this. So now where is that value occurring here? So basically I need this. So for this position, my percentage returns are here. So that's the reason why. How many times have we shifted twice? So that's the reason why we use a shift. So let's get back to our code. So this is our buy and hold and strategy returns, we do equity calculations. So since these are simple returns that we are using here, we have to do compounding by adding or one plus data returns to it and do a com prod. And you can see there are the buy and hold and strategy returns created right now to get the net returns, what you have to do is you'll have to do a minus one, right? You have to do a minus one with the whole or the last. So what does this mean? So this one plus data or buy and hold returns. Since these returns are simple returns, right? We do one plus, and you do a product, okay? We cannot simply add simple returns. I hope you guys are aware of that. So that's the reason why we have to do this, this type of compounding. So this basically means that one rupee, how does your equity change over time? Right? So you will have day one, some value which is 1.01 day two, 1.02 depending on the returns that you have earned each day. Then what you do is you multiply it and the end value in your buy and hold equity. A column. So as you can see, the total returns here is buy and hold equity columns. Last value minus one means, get me the last value. And strategy returns, get me the last value. So that last value, I will minus one, I will subtract one from it, and I'll multiply by 100 to get the percentage. So can you see here the buy and hold and strategy returns. So the strategy is not doing quite well when compared to buy and hold. So I would have to tweak in or change the you know, look back periods to get a better returns over buy and hold. So Shubham, yes, you can use log return directly to avoid this calculation that is also done in this notebook. So I will demonstrate that. So because, yes, you can use log returns, because they are, they are easier to easier for mathematical computations. You can just add them, right? So let's check the equity curves. So, so this is for buy and hold, and this is for strategy equity. As you can see, this is how your equity has moved over time. This will give you an idea, right? Further analysis. So I would just suggest that you can go through this in detail. But there is a library called quant stats, so if it's not installed on your computer, please use this line of code to install it and then import it, and you can just do a deeper analysis of your strategy returns by using Qs dot reports, dot full. So if you can see there are a lot of performance metrics here, sharp ratio sorting, no. Smart shorty, no. If you are unaware of any of these metrics, you can just Google it and you will, I mean, it will be explained to you. So apart from these, right, there are a lot of graphs, also that you get the worst drawdowns, cumulative returns, cumulative log, scale returns, monthly returns, then there is rolling volatility. So there's a lot of deeper analysis for your strategy. If you're looking into deeper analysis, you can use constats, underwater plots, and there are a lot so you can take a look at it right now in trade wise analysis. What here, what I'm trying to do here is right? Or I'm just extracting only the rows. So dot location. Loc is dot location, you can think of it. Get the location of all these columns where either my signal is one or my signal is minus one. So this stands for or so, either this or this. So in short, I just need to have eight rows because there are only eight signals that my strategy has generated, four long and four short. So even if you count, there are eight rows here. Now, what I want to highlight here is now, this is my signal. I'll have to square off now, right? So that means the last row of my original data frame should have a squared of position. So that means my signal in the last row of this data column should be minus one and position should be zero. I hope that's clear. So that means what I'm trying to say here is data, okay, dot tail. Okay. So that means, on this date, that is 2711, 2020, so this is four, six here, and this is 2711, so that means on this particular date, this position must be squared off, because that's the last date that I have. So what I'll do is, or corresponding to this day, my position, my signal, should be minus one, and I'll be holding zero position. This is called squaring off, right? So let's square off. So what that means is I will create a variable called B, okay, and which has signal zero and one for now, squaring off as a suggested signal minus one position zero, right? And then let's concatenate just a minute, yeah. So what I've done is I've created, oh, I have just extracted in B the last row, okay, that means this row, okay. Then I have squared off the position, so I have explicitly set it as minus one and zero. Okay, then what I've done is I've concatenated the previous eight rows with previous eight rows with this B so as you can see, the last date now it is minus one. Okay, it has it has done twice. I'm sorry. Because I ran it twice. However, it should come only once. But this is what I'm trying to say. So this position is squared off. This has come twice because I ran the code twice. So please ignore that. But actually it should be one. It is. It will take the, what you say, opposite signal, and my position is now zero. It is squared off. Okay, so now let's simply just let me know what is the difference between simple returns and log returns quickly in two seconds. What you know?

Speaker 1  1:25:50  
Log is additive, simple as multiplicative. Okay, right? Yes, so log returns basically take into account compounding effect. Compounding effect, okay, so, and once we are using, since we are dealing with prices, right? So we assume that they are continuously getting compounded. So that's why we use a lot of log returns, right? So, so you know, for example, we are, of course, we are into quant trading domain. So if you want to build a financial model to forecast the future price, okay, of a stock some some model that you're building, you generally go with a lot of assumptions, saying that the returns are normally distributed, or you are interested in the cumulative performance over a long period. So in such cases, when there are a lot of statistical models that you're using and normally distribute, normal distributions that you use for modeling your returns, right? That's when log returns are very helpful, since they're time additive. Simple returns are also used, but they are used for short term, discrete periods, like discrete periods, and not when continuous compounding is considered. So for example, you know, like, I can say the stock price rose 5% today. So that is simple return, like as that you've calculated, right? You just compare it with the previous days. So that's a very simple that's a simple return that we are using here, nor we don't need log, right? So we do use a combination of simple and log returns. It just depends on what type of analysis you're doing. As you can see, simple returns, we use comptroller right in the strategy that we just saw. So this is computationally expensive. However, log or they are not computationally expensive, because we can add them simple return we have to multiply. Okay, so let's do this new data. So this is for these are the log returns that we've calculated for the close prices which we downloaded for nifty 50, right? So NP, dot log or data, close, data, close, dot shift, right. And then this is the simple returns, which is dot percentage change. Now, can you see? You cannot really see the blue line, but however, you can see a shadow of it behind the orange line. Since the daily percentage changes in the close price is very minimal, there's not much difference between the log and the simple returns right here in this graph. However, let's just create a random returns log and simple so when the initial price and the final price have a lot of difference, then the difference between the simple and the log returns become more evident. Can you see this? This is minus 0.9 and this is minus 4.61 if the difference between this is this much. However, in our daily prices that we see, there won't be much changes in the price, right? The move is not so much on a daily basis. So that's why you get to see a graph like this, right? So, so evaluating returns using log prices. So we just create the buy and hold on the strategy returns using log so let's do that. So these are your log returns. These are log returns, and you can print the log return so you can compare the values. There will be differences in the strategy or the simple and the log returns here, right? So this is using log returns. What I demonstrated previously was using simple returns. Now I'll just quickly touch upon what is vectorize and event driven back testing. I will not go in detail. The code is there. You can go through it, since we are running out of time. So So as I mentioned here, what does vectorization mean, right? So let me just go back. To our line of code. Please excuse me for my schooling. So when we were generating our signals, right? Okay, here can you see this part where data signal, NP, dot, where? So what? What I'm doing here is I'm actually performing a vectorized operation. That means that I'm taking the whole of data. Data Frame around 899 rows, if I'm not mistaken, how many ever odd rows at once. What I'm doing is I am checking for this conditions. This condition, okay? And at once I will just check and either apply one or zero. So this is at one go. So you can relate this with the array multiplication operation that we saw previously, that you given an array, you multiply it with three, all at once, concurrently. So this operation is also done concurrently. So this is not done one after the other. It's not iterating that, okay? Row one, check, row two, check, no. So it will take the whole data frame at once, check for the condition, and it will do it concurrently. So this is vectorized operations. Now, this for the same strategy. What if I had to do event driven back testing, right? So for event driven back testing, or, yeah, so for event driven back testing, right? Is, this is the same code again. What you need to do is you use a for loop, as I just mentioned, okay. So what you do is you're, in this case, you will iterate through the whole length of the data frame. So len of DF will give you the length of the data frame. So that is the number of rows. You will iterate through each row and check for this condition. That is, is the long is the long condition satisfied? Is the short condition satisfied? If yes, then you get you append to trade price, position, date. So this is done one each, one after the other. So it's like for 800 rows, it will go one by one, one by one, one by one, right? So that's what for loop does. It will iterate through every row. Somebody is asking me, which one is faster? Vectorized or event driven. Of course, vectorized F of course. Vectorized is of course. Vectorized is because event driven back testing goes through each row, one after the other. But vectorized is faster, because everything is done at once, concurrently, right? So as you can see, in this case, you will this will also give yield the same result, of course, as before. Let's check the positions. As you can see, there are four position four short for long, it will be the same thing because the condition will not the condition is same, right? Is just the way we are doing. It is different. So we did a vectorized way of np dot where we used there. Here we are using a for loop. So, right? So now I want to highlight the difference. Why I have shown you this event driven back testing, right? So why do we use event driven back testing? Or so so event driven back testing simulates each event sequentially. So what event driven back testing does is it mimics the actual trading process, okay, so when you are actually trading right, what happens is it reacts to the market data. So every so for this condition, also for for Moving Average crossover, it's okay. But however, there might be some intraday strategies, right? So you need to receive a new price tick, for example, then you generate a signal based on that trick, on that on that tick, okay? So there might be some condition you receive it okay. At that moment, you have to take a decision, and you have to execute the trade immediately. So in that case, event driven back testing is needed, right? So in that case, I cannot do a vectorized back testing. I have to sit and wait for that particular event to happen and react to the market data and the order events which is happening. Now, event driven systems are crucial for live trading. Okay? And also, of course, it is very, very it is required for handling other execution aspects like slippage and transaction costs, which cannot be done in vectorized back testing. So vectorized back testing is fast, of course, and it is good for prototyping indicator based type strategies. For example, the moving crossover strategy that I just spoke about. However, if you're dealing you know, closer to real trading systems, like intraday strategies that reacts for tick by tick data, placing or canceling orders, handling fails, so on and so forth. So for. That you will be using event driven back testing and and mostly you will be using event driven back testing only for, you know, such strategies, mostly. So this part will be covered in your dmp 04 if I'm not a DMP 04 Yeah, dmp 04 lecture as to how to handle it and with, with the help of a very elaborate strategy, right? So I just wanted to highlight the difference between the two. So yeah,

Speaker 1  1:35:29  
we overshot by five minutes. So I'm sorry, but I just hope that I could answer all your questions. I went a little overboard. It took some time to explain, but if there are any more questions, I can wait for five minutes. If not, you can, of course, again, if there are any other questions which are elaborate, you can write your support manager, and I can help you Over the email. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:37:21  
so when somebody has asked me, When is it necessary to copy? Just give me a second. Guys.

Speaker 1  1:37:43  
Ah, yeah. So when is it necessary to copy a DF instead of writing on it directly? So the thing is, for example, right? You're doing a set of operations on a you have a data frame that you have copied, and you have downloaded data, and you do not want to modify the original data frame, right? You just want to keep it as it is, because on the data frame, we are going to do a certain operations lattice, for example. Now we've created indicators so on and so forth. So for certain reason, maybe you will need your original data frame, your or your original data okay? For that matter, let it be even some data that you're analyzing. So for example, some trade data that you have from a CSV file you've loaded into Python, and you're doing some analysis on the post trade data. So it is, it is a good practice to make a copy of it so that you don't modify that original data frame that you've copied into Python, because again, then you will have to go and then load it into Python, so on and so forth. So just for, you know, just for, just as a good practice, it's recommended to keep, to keep the original as it is, and make a copy and then work on it. So there is no hard and fast rule that you have to but it's just a good practice.

Speaker 1  1:39:09  
Will there be lectures on how to implement transaction costs? Yes, there will be Jesse i

Speaker 1  1:39:30  
Sure, okay. Thank you guys. Thank you so much for your time. I hope this session was helpful, and have a good of the rest of the evening. And thank you so much.

Unknown Speaker  1:39:51  
Good. Yeah.

