Speaker 1  0:07  
Hi everyone. Welcome to the third session in options trading lectures, which is options pricing models and Greeks before we proceed. Can you guys confirm if my screen is visible and my voice is audible clearly? You can just type it out in the chat.

Speaker 1  0:28  
Okay, thanks for the confirmation, guys. So you already know me. This is Varun Kumar, and as I said in the last class, also I've had experience as an options traders, institutionally and both as global micro analyst and algo trading strategist too. And currently I'm leading product team in one of the investment firms that is based on algorithms created based on ml and neural networks. So let's move ahead. In the last class we discussed pretty basics of options and the approach we take when we are actually doing options trading, and what are all the thought process that helps as an options trader. In this lecture, we are going to revisit few of the basics that we covered in the previous classes, and we would solidify the understanding of the terminology too, but we go deep. Since you might have already got an idea, the most important part of options literature is to understand the pricing. So we are going to study what are all the features that impact this option stress. For example, if you have to come up with a options pricing model. Or at a basic level, if you want to understand why options price is moving the way it's moving, first, you should know what are all the factors that results to this move. So we're going to discuss that, and then we are going to discuss on black sculpts model and what is a standard form of equation we use and over the lecture, you would also be given a code, a Pythonic code, that helps you to calculate these, the options prices. And then we will transition into Options Greeks. So I'll tell you how this fits in the entire OTS lectures. As we move forward, we are going to focus more and more on volatility trading. For the same reason in even in oth two I think we spend about 20 to 30 minutes on volatility trading. But before you think about any kind of trade with options, there should be a strong foundation on how this pricing works. For that reason, majority of the portion of this particular lecture focuses on all the elements of options pricing. We are going to see some example trading strategies also, so that you get more intuition on how this pricing works. And slowly, we will discuss options Greeks also, because, as I said, if you want to do volatility trading, you should also have a strong grip of Greeks. So that is the agenda for this lecture. So let's revisit few of the basics and terminologies. Sure, this is covered in options primer, even in last lecture. Also we discussed whether any of you guys have gone through the primer, sure, at least majority of you have gone through the primer. But still, we are going to revisit few of those concepts, but within a context of trading, let me see if we have any more questions. Okay, so I will start with the very basic definitions of options, but I'll tell you like, yeah, you might have seen these definitions, what is a call, what is a put, etc. But the way to think about options is in the name itself, it gives you an optionality. So most of the times, for example, if you have a call option, you have an option to act upon it. So if the situations are favorable, you will redeem these options, whether it is a call or a put, and according to the premium you will be paid, but not every time you will be held responsible to take any action. We'll see some examples for the same we'll take it slow this lecture, maybe we might overshoot by 1015, minutes, because I just want to take it a bit slow and also give you a holistic understanding. For example, this is also covered in primer. Essentially, if there is a premium for an option at a most fundamental level, options, you can think of it like an incidence product where you pay premium, right? Sometimes traders think in another way. Traders think, instead of buying equity with full price, why don't I take a position in option with a much lesser capital?

Speaker 1  4:53  
But this premium, how is it defined, right? Or how is it broken into So ideally, pre. Hazim has two elements, one is called intrinsic value, and other is extrinsic value. Let's understand with an example. For example, if you have an underlying which is currently trading at $100 so wherever you see capital S that talks about the current price of the underlying. So if that is trading at $100 and this is the position you have. The position is 90 strike. Call means you have a call option. But call option can be a different strike prices. You have a call option at 90 strike and the current worth, or current premium, is $14 now how do you understand this $14 if you think about it, the price of the underlying is already 800 but you have a 90 story call, so already it is making you $10 so if you have a chance to execute it right now or exercise it right now, so you would get $10 anyway. So that $10 out of this $14 is called intrinsic value, and this is the amount by which strike of an option is profitable as compared to current price in the market. So if that, let's say if the underlying is 95 then the intrinsic value would have been $5 since it is $100 100 minus 90 gives you $10 What about the rest of the $4 right? This $4 is called extrinsic value. Logically, to think, whenever you take an options position, it is tied to an expiry date. For example, if you have a monthly option, and imagine this is the beginning of the month, of course, it is the beginning of the monthly coincidentally, then you have one month for this option to play out. For you to get this optionality, you're giving this additional $4 that is why this is also called as a time value. So is this sees your buying by giving this $4 so that within the next related amount of time till the expiry, you have an option to take actions on this particular contract. So in a definition level, this particular time value reflects in future. If the situations are positive, for example, if you have a call option and you see an extreme raise in the underlying which is favorable to you, then you can act upon it. So for you to take an action in the limited time you're paying this money. So how it is tied to the entire concept of options? As we move forward, you will realize more and more, because we have an options Greek called theta that essentially deals with this $4 the extensive value, because this particular value will keep on changing. This is not a constant. For example, if today it is $100 then your intrinsic value is $10 imagine tomorrow also the price is $100 still you pay only $10 so the intrinsic value is dynamic with respect to price. If price doesn't change, your intrinsic value will not have the change. But out of this $14 the rest of the $4 is quite dynamic. It depends on how many days you have you have left for the expiry, and this is the extrinsic value that is actually imparting to this $14 so that sees the very basic idea of what a premium is and how it is divided. But as traders, if we have to study market, see, for example, anybody ask you what kind of market we are in right now? People might say bullish, bearish. Some might say it is consolidating all these things. So similarly, if you have to understand what level this particular options contract is. Or if you have to categorize options contract, you categorize in terms of the moneyness. So moneyness as a name, says moneyness is nothing but how profitable, or how money making it is at this moment. So with that in mind, they are divided into three parts, in the money, out of the money and at the money. And so it's simple to understand, as the name suggest, if you are able to exercise this option right away, if it is in the money, in the for example, if I go to the previous example, this is an in the money contract. So if today is an expiry date, definitely you would have got $10 right, because you have an option position at 90 strike and the underlying is at $100 so you have $10 moneyness here. So that is why this is called in the money means it is already making money for you. What if the current underlying is at $100 and your strike is also at $100 in such case, it is called at the money where the underlying contract and your strike price, or your call option strike price, or any option strike price is exactly the same.

Speaker 1  9:48  
On the other hand, if, let's say this is $80 that means you are not going to make money with it like correct if it expires right now, if the contract is at $80 and you have. 90 strike in such case that is called out of the money because it is doesn't have any moneyness at this moment. So this classification is not just at a definition level or for the comfort, but this will actually help you to understand different different market scenarios from the eyes of options. Because at any moment, I know few of you would already know this, or maybe you're used to this terminology, because if somebody says market is bullish, then depending on where the price might go, you would think whether to take a position at the money or in the money or out of the money. So this definition is important because this is the terminology we're going to use as we move forward quite actively. Now, another way to another classification you would have seen about options is we would have heard American options, European options. But these types are not just limited to American or European. There are different types of options, and also these are they are not related to the region they are listed in, so American options and European options are closely related to how they are structured. For example, European options are the options contract that can only be exercised on an expiry date. So when we say expiry of an option, you're talking about taking either a delivery of an option or going for cash settlement. Going to give you more examples on this, but at a structural level, European options doesn't mean that they are listed in European exchanges. It's just mean that you have a single expiry date, and on that single expiry date, your options contract is going to be exercised. But what about American options? Right? American options are going to give you more optionality. Means if you have an American option open, you can exercise at any point of time. For example, you have a monthly American options. You don't need to wait for end of the month to exercise it. If you feel like today is most favorable for that option, then you can exercise it today itself. For that very reason, it's American options are a bit costly. If you see the premium of American options there are more costly because it is giving you more optionality. But European option is giving you limited optionality. It is only allowing you to exercise on a particular expiry date and see, depending on what region you are in and what asset your trading is underlying, the different the way the options contract are listed will change, but most of the options contracted European options, some exchanges would have both Europe and American options also. So depending on where you're trading, you might want to check what underlying is that you want to trade and what type of options they're in. But there are different interesting ways these is considered. These options. For example, there are Asian options. You don't need to understand these or remember these particular definitions, but I'm going to give an idea. You know how varied these are. For example, whenever we go for exercising or settlement, you take a settlement based on the last traded price in the exchange. So if that last traded price is fixed, then you can define your options as in the money, out of the money at the money. But Asian options, or options contract that takes average close price of different days as for settlement, instead of taking close price of a single day, they would take close credits of, let's say last five days or last three days, etc. Similarly, there are Russian pyramids, Parisians having there are different types of options contract, but most of these options contractors named as these are not common contracts. We chance upon. These are all exotic options, but these are not contracts that retail traders trades with,

Speaker 1  14:04  
and as I use the term exotic options, they are nothing but options which are not commonly used. See, these are institutional grade options which are created at a case to case level. But these are not the options contract that are there out there for retailers or you want me to trade. And it completely depends on what that particular hedge fund wanted to actually structure their options contract. See, there are many options see, for example, we have in us. We have s and p5, 100 options contracts. And there are, there are different index options contract that listed in NSC and BSA also, if it comes to India. So these are all structured options contract which are basically, there is no not much creativity involved, or not much objectivity involved. They are there very theoretically and there does the purpose, but there might be institutional demands to create a different. Structured options contract, and there are exchanges that list them also. So very rarely you see them in major exchanges like we trade with, but even they are there, and only few institutional level hedge funds and etc would use them. So it has nothing to do with what we are going to trade. But at a theory level, you should know we are not only limited to European options or American options. In some ways, there are other structured options contract also. Now, I think we spent 510 minutes in the last class also to kind of get a right mindset to approach these options trading, where we discussed in general, in the market, irrespective of the assets or asset classes, we tend to complicate the way we trade simpler products, for the very reason I was explaining we have iceberg orders. We have spoofing that happens. We have layering that happens. That is pride, pretty common in futures markets, because there are volumes there, and pretty common in equity markets also. But when it comes to options, people has this opinion that it is very complicated to trade options, but it is not. They are complex. I agree, because there are different combinations you can create with calls and puts, but that is just to express your opinion on the market, I'm going to show you few interesting combinations like that and try to build intuition for you. Because in let me give you a new example, which we didn't discuss in the last class. If I'm bullish on market, generally, I would talk about equity market, I'll go buy that stock. If I'm bullish, I'll just go buy that stock. If I'm trading with futures, I might go long in futures, I buy those futures. But in the market, if you actually see, if people believe the price would go up, there are many instances where people try to manipulate the price to bring it down first so that they can buy more stocks at the cheaper price. If you think fundamentally, if you believe a stock would go, you just, you need to just go and buy the stock. But no, people actually do different, different things. For example, I am bullish. You're also bullish on a stock, but I believe I'm not currently it is a trading at 100, and I am not comfortable to trade at 100, but if it is at 90, I'm very happy to buy it because I did my analysis, and I believe 90 is a fair price. In such case, I might do some unethical practices. I might do spoofing, layering, etc, bring down the price from 100 to 90, and at 90, I might start buying this kind of behavior is observed across the exchanges, and there are regulatory bodies to curb this particular practice. But if you really think about it, why are traders doing this? Why are traders complicating their approach when they're trading stocks? I'm sure for a few of you, this is new, because any for anybody, any normal traders. You might not even heard about it, but there are institutional practices that are actually banned across all the exchanges where people try to manipulate price to get better prices. That limitation, personally, I believe that populated because if you are trading equities, you actually very limited. You can only express your opinion in terms of buying or selling, but when it comes to options, even if you have a complex opinion on the market, for example, let me, let us open one chat, and let's see what I mean.

Speaker 1  18:41  
Just taking apple as an example. It just works for everything. So at a quick glance, I could see from June, there is an uptrend and there is a pullback, right? Maybe, if I'm just trading stocks, I might not be completely comfortable to buy here. Maybe I might think if it breaks out, I would buy only if it breaks the reason high, or maybe if it pulls back more. Maybe this is the price at which I'm very comfortable to trade in. So if I'm trading equities, it's a fairly straightforward approach. Either I wait for this price to break, or I wait for the price to fall here. This is where people try to do some band practices like price manipulation, etc, to increase the supply here, let it come here and then start buying here. But when it comes to options, all these things are very rarely seen, because in options, even if you have a limited functionality here, for example, I don't want to buy here. If I'm trading equities, I don't do anything now, either I wait for the price to come here or go up to here. But if I'm trading options, I can create a combination of calls and put and still populate a trade here. I can strategize to make money by. Sticking to my direction and still acting upon what's happening right now. I'm going to give an example on that also as we move forward, but this is just to kind of solidify the approach that when you are talking about options, there are a bit complex but the trading is very easy, even if you could break that initial resistance of understanding options trading is a very simple thing. There are only few fundamentals you need to understand to trade options, and it's pretty straightforward. So the very first thing when I'm talking about breaking few like breaking the barrier, to actually get into the trader mindset, is to visualize few things, if you remember, I think, in the last class, also, of course, the primer too, there is a discussion on payoff. This is actually very important, because any decision you're going to take to strategies or structure an option strategy is based on payoff. So this we know whenever we are talking about a call option, this is the equation for payoff. So either the difference between the strike and the spot or zero, whichever is maximum, you get that as your payoff. So essentially, either maybe, if I have to be very pessimistic, or talk the other way, if you lose the maximum amount of money you would lose when you buy a call option is your premium. Similarly, when you're talking about put right, when the stock falls, you start making money. So whenever you're buying a call or a put premium is the maximum you would lose. But when you're selling, the losses are unlimited. Sorry, so coming back to this, whenever I'm talking about payoff. Yeah, I know we have equations and we have all these calculations, but a simpler way to understand this is to actually plot them. So when you have a payoff diagram like this for a call, it is actually very easy to understand, as we discussed. Firstly, you need to mark that the money price, and accordingly, whenever the price is above that, you start making money in a call option. And on the other hand, if you have a put option, when the price is declining, you start making money. But this is fairly simple and straightforward, and when I'm talking about expressing your market understanding, this is where you define your bullishness and bearishness. So a straightforward approach is, if I believe stock would go up, I might take a call. Or if I believe a stock would fall, I might take a put. But creating an option strategy or expressing your market understanding through these combinations is where the strength of the options lies in. So not even going to volatility trading. Now, let's just try to understand at a directional level. We'll take examples of directional bit, because as traders, we are used to take that only right. I'm sure even when you're trading stocks, most of the times, we think about what direction it could we might not think about what is his volatility, or is the volatility extremely high or low? So let's build the basic intuition through the directional examples, and slowly we will go into volatility. How to Understand volatility, the plots of it, etc.

Speaker 1  23:14  
So coming back to this, we might loosely use the term strategy. We generally say options strategy, and we name strategies like straddles, triangle, etc. But technically they are not strategies. They are combination. They are mere combination of a call option and a put option, right. But when you're talking about strategy, it should have more details a strategy will tell you at what is the risk at different levels. A strategy will also tell you, after you take a position and before you close the position, there could be additional steps you might look for example, people do Delta Hazim. I know I'm just skipping forward, but yeah, I'm just giving you a few terms. We are going to use a lot. Some might do delta hedging. Delta hedging is a intermediate step you do before the options contract expats. So that is the strategy, if you are talking about delta hedging, that comes with defined rules and intermediate steps you take. But when you say straddle is a strategy. Strangle is a strategy. It's not technically right, because you are not talking about any other intermediate steps, or technically you're not talking about how to handle the position. When you're talking about a straddle, you're only saying where to enter and where to exit. So when, what about these combinations? Right? Like we are talking about, I You must have heard butterfly, iron condor, or, as I was saying, strangle straddles, etc. So why do we have these combinations? Because people wanted to express their market view through trading, so they lean to these kind. Of combinations, but it should be very clear, you get lots of freedom when you combine this. You get different payout diagrams, you have different risks and different return patterns, etc. But if you overuse them, it's going to be detrimental to profits. I'll show you how it is. Let's start with few trade examples, and let's try to understand how these combinations place out and why overusing these combinations is not good for our trading journey. So let's start with the hedge. I want to start with the hedge because the whole reason why you have options contract is because of hedge people have extremely costly positions in underlying for example, some might have a million dollar worth of Apple shares, and they would want to hold for, let's say, next five years. But given how geopolitics are playing right now, and also how volatility is there across different market exchanges. Some people is very skeptical about holding a million dollar worth of any share for next five years. In such case, they might hedge it. So let's see how these things are done. So the very basic approach you take is, if you have a stock, this is how your payoff looks like. For example, if you have a stock at $90 so how do we draw a payoff? Whenever the price goes up, you start making money. So this is a profit and lost chat, and whenever the price falls, you start losing money. And even at a stock level, the loss is limited, because how much can you lose here? The maximum you would lose is $90 because $90 is what you paid for, but how much can you gain? It is unlimited, theoretically, because there is no slap to a stock could go. It can go to $100 $10,000 a million dollar, also, technically, if you give enough time. But what happens if you buy a put also? So in addition to having a share at $90 for which this is the payoff of the underlying you also pay $10 and you bought a 90 put so let's understand how these things plays out. You already know the payoff diagram of a put option. Let me go back

Speaker 1  27:34  
so this is a payoff diagram of a put option. One thing to understand is this is a payoff diagram, but not a profit and loss diagram. Those two things are different. When you're talking about a payoff, you don't worry about the costs that are involved. For example, you pay some money to buy this put that is called as premium, isn't it? But here you're not considering premium. You are straight away, saying, If a stock falls below 100, you start making money. But that's not realistic, because you need to first cover the costs, and then you start making money. The cost is your premium, and that is what you see in Profit and Loss Chart. For that very reason, you see, they see this particular horizontal line that starts at 90. This is not at zero, even if the price goes below 90, initially you're not making money. And after few more points it falls you started making money, because first you need to cover your costs, which is in this example, it is $10 for any case, when you're talking about P and L, it is also considering recovery of the premium you paid. So let's understand this with a combined plot, because right now this is not the only position. In this example, you have you have two positions, you have a share, you have a underlying position, which is a long position at $90 and you have a put option. So to this is the combination I'm talking about. So if you combine this, the correct way to understand this is to have a Profit and Loss Chart, or can be a payoff chart, also something like this. So if you see this, this is a representation of a combined position you have where, if you where, you have a underlying long position and also a long position in a put option. So let's see what happens here in this payoff. This tells you the content underlying is at 90. You bought it at 90, but essentially, you're making money only above $100 because you already paid $10 for the put So initially, when you start itself, you're starting with a loss of $10 and only after the price. Price moves, and you recover the $10 you should start making money. And how do you make money here? The downside is limited. If you lose, you're losing only $10 The reason is, if I go back, since you have a put option, if you let imagine if you only have a share, in such case, if it falls below 90, you start losing money. But since you all also have a put option, whenever there is a downfall, whatever you are losing here, you are actually gaining here. So essentially, there is a downward protection when you combine an underlying with a long position input, hence you get a payoff like this, where whenever there is a decline in the stock, your losses are just limited to the premium you paid. You're not going to lose much because you're going to make profit also. So if I had to go back, the profit you get in a put and the loss you get in a stock both get canceled out. That's why you're not actually losing money when the market is falling, but when the market is going up, the underlying is actually making you money. Hence the final payoff diagram, you would have a positive payoff whenever there is an increase in the price of the hedged position. So the takeaway here is the you can actually limit the losses, but you can never completely erase the losses. So hedging will only help you to limit the loss. Hedging will only help you to cap the losses, but you can't completely irradiate losses, because you're paying $10 to get this premium. So this is the very basic approach, or very simple example of a combination you can create using a call and a put. And if you see, if you are trading just equity, how can you do this, right? I mean, it see, at a very basic approach itself is telling you the freedom or additional flexibility options gives you option. Currently we are talking about hedging, we are going to see other approaches also.

Speaker 1  32:05  
So essentially, we are going to talk about directional options trading, where if you have a directional opinion or a directional understanding of a contract, let's say a stock in equity, you just go and buy it. And when it comes to options, you can also do it. You can just go and buy a call option that's called naked options trading, because it's just a single contract you're buying. In such case, there are few advantages and there are some disadvantages also. So the very first advantage is, if you're losing you your loss is limited in the sense, let's say you bought a stock at $90 it could go to $0 also where you're using 90 but instead, if you buy a call option with a minimum premium, let's say $2 or $5 you're going to lose only $5 so the loss is limited. On the other hand, the profit is unlimited, right? Because, yeah, stock, there is no ceiling to upside the stock could go. But there are disadvantages also. The very first disadvantage, which is very intuitive, is, if you buy a stock, let's say at $90 you can wait forever. You don't, you don't have a time cap for it. If you believe it would go from $90 to, let's say, $200 maybe we expect it to go in any year. You can wait for an year. It at least. Maybe within couple of years, it might go that far. But when it comes to options, you are limited by the expiry date, because every options contract comes with an expiry, and it has limited time to work out. This is a additional complication that options gives you. It not only asks you to get the right direction that is defined, you should get the right direction. On top of it, you should also be able to say how long it will take to move well in the direction. So is it a week? Is it a month, or is it an year? In general, people might not care much about that aspect. When you're trading equity, if they get good prices, good levels, there is a good demand zone, they might actually go ahead and invest in that particular stock. But for the same option, for the same underlying you also need to think how long it will actually take to move in that direction to the specified price you want it to go. And another practical issue is, for example, today, if I say SNP 500 is positive, then the next question I need to worry about is, what contract should I take a long position if I want to take a call option? Let's say if I want to take a long position in a call option. The next question is, at what strike? Because depending on the strike, it could be in the money or out of the money or at the money. But when it is exercised, you want to make money, so it should. Be in the money on the expiry date. So in addition to predicting whether the price would go to that expiry or not, or at that price or not, an exercise day, you should also be able to knowledgeable to pick the right strike price so that it plays out as you intended to.

Speaker 1  35:17  
But the very the another practical issue is high transaction costs. But it is not very clear on the phase, but I'll tell you why there are high transaction costs. Because theoretically, we might talk about buying one call option, but at a practical level, there are predefined lots you need to buy. For example, if I had to talk about Indian market. If I'm talking if I'm trading weekly index options, I have to, I can't buy one call option. I need to buy a lot of 65 so there are lots that are defined. They are defined for other in other contracts. Also, for example, if I'm trading SPX or SMP 500 contracts, there is a specified lot says. So you can't just buy one contract. You need to buy a multiple of lots. So that's where your transaction costs also shoots up. And there are other nuances. Also, which is, which varies depends on brokers and also the exchanges are listed in and also the reason you are in because there is taxation that is different for options compared to equities, and comparatively, there are higher transaction costs when it comes to options. So if you are not knowledgeable about all these factors, more often than not, we might bike on options contracts with higher price than their worth. Essentially, technically, it says you pay more money than fair value. So we are going to see as we move forward in OTS three, especially in OTS four, when you're talking about volatility trading, we come up with more mathematical and quantitative approaches to optimize this approach, like what is the correct strike price to pick, and how do you actually understand the risk before you take a position itself, all these things we are going to discuss. And even if you're talking about the strike choice, depending on the strike, your profit and loss will change. For example, if I have a options position, let's say one year options on $100 stock, right? So depending on where it is exercised, if it the in one year, if it went to 125 then my profitability is high, my return is high. And 140 the return is extremely high. But if I go ahead and buy 140 strike call option, then there is no option profitability, right? So to keep it simply, currently, it is trading at $100 and I went ahead and buy a 140 strike price option and wait it for an year. It doesn't make sense, because if the price doesn't go above 140 I am not going to make money. But if I buy a call option that is at $100 it has higher chances that the price would go above 100, because it is already at 100. But this is not as straight forward as just buying at the money or current in the money options. It has more nuances. We're going to unveil them as we move forward. But essentially, people not only think about the profitability. I see time and time many beginner options traders, if they are bullish of a particular underlying, I've seen them go and buy a cheaper option. They don't care about what exactly this particular option is. I mean, is it a in the money? Is it out of the money, or how far it is from the current spot price? These things, they don't worry much. They go and buy the cheaper options out there. Most of the times it would be way out of the money option, but the probability of them actually finishing in the money on expiry also varies. For example, in the same context we put in the stock is at 100 within an year. What are the chances it could go above 140 they would be very less compared to chances it being above 90, because it's already above 90, so there are higher chances for it to stay above 90 then go above 140 but if you go ahead and bought a cheapest option, 140 options contract is going to be cheaper for you, so that call option is going to be cheaper for You, you might feel the risk is less or the cost is less, but that's not a right approach to more head with strike choices. This is why one strike choice is one of the difficult decisions you're going to take for directional trading. It you might feel it's fairly straightforward. If I believe it goes above 100, maybe I buy a call of flat 100. But when you create combinations, maybe when you talk about straddles triangles, or when you're talking about volatility trading, this strike choice should be more methodological and less and less intuitive. It would become more and more rule based. It would become so let's understand an interesting. In combination, this is titled as call spread because, essentially, even if you, let's say, you believe a stock would go up, ideally, you go and buy an acre call option, which is the simplest way to approach but let me show you one example.

Speaker 1  40:19  
Let's go to the chat again. Let me make it a line chat to make it more simpler. So, yeah, imagine, okay, let this is actually a very good example here. I believe the stock would go up, and I believe it would go up till, let's say, 286 186 let's say this is the price at which I believe the stock would stop. Let's say final price,

Speaker 1  40:56  
or final price. Let's imagine this is my final price. Let me make it green, and this is my entry price. Let me put an entry here. Here is my entry. So let's see how these things plays out. If I'm just drawing it here. I believe it will go from this particular price, which is about 260 to 287 if I am buying a call option, if you think theoretically, if I buy a call option, theoretically it, it is, it could go to any price. It could go to 320 it would go to 340 before my expiry or on the expiry date. It could close anywhere above the entry price. It could go anywhere. And if I'm paying premium, I'm actually paying premium for an optionality to act when a stock goes to 303 2340, and forever, where I'm leading to is even if I am pretty sure it's going to just go from 260 to 285 just a 25 rupee or $25 increase. But I'm paying premium for an increase of $100 $200 and so on and so forth. So this is almost like I am paying money for the services I'm I know I'm never going to get so to repeat, I want to take a call option. I want to pay full premium so that when it goes from 260 to 285 on expiry, I'm going to be paid like I'm going to get some profit. But when you're paying premium, the current premium, whatever it could be, theoretically, you're paying that premium. That premium is calculated without a limit of 285 that is calculated with a theoretical understanding that the price could go to any price. So if you think about it, you're warping right? You're paying for all the price zones it would never reach before expiry. For that reason, there is a smart way to get back that cost. That is, you definitely know it would go above this price. So you buy a options, call option here, you buy a call option here somewhere, let's say 260 call option. And you definitely know, if you're very sure about your analysis, you know it might not go about 286 in such case it is. There is no harm in selling a call option here, because when do you sell a call option? You buy a call option if you believe it goes above that price. You sell a call option if you believe it stays below that price. So if I buy a call option here by paying a premium, why shouldn't I sell a call option at a higher price and collect back some part of the premium? This is called as a spread, where, for a Saeed contract, you are actually opening positions at different prices. This is one type of spread. There are different price of spreads also. So I just put a context for you. Let's try to understand this with a simple example. You believe a stock would go above 90, and it expires above 90, but you know, it's not going to go above 120 let's say this is a range in which you believe the stock would play out. In such case, you can actually open a call spread. So the logic with this call spread is at an operational level, you buy a call option at, let's say, $90 and if you believe it will go only till 120 you sell a call option at 120 so essentially you have a combination of two contracts. For the very first contract you are actually paying premium for the second contract you are receiving premium. This is how you can cut down the cost. But let's understand how the payoff of this particular. Approach looks like. So I'm just going back. Is just a combination of these two payoff diagrams, and this is how this looks like. So maybe I'll go back and give you a couple of points here. If this call option, how to read this payoff diagram is, if the price closes above $90 on an expiry date, you're going to get positive payoff. So if, depending on where it lands, so the y axis tells you how much payoff you get. On the other hand, when you have a short position, if the price actually falls, you start making money. So since this is opened at one $20 if the price goes above one $20 you start making money. On the other hand, if it is falling, you lose enter capital.

Speaker 1  45:48  
You lose the premium you paid. But how the how do you tie these two things? This is how you express your market understanding when you combine this. This is our payoff of a call spread looks like, where you start making money only when the price is above $90 and as long as it stays within one $20 your payoff will gradually increase or linearly increase, and after one $20 you're not making money again. So there are a couple of ways you can understand how this thing is playing out. The first thing is, there is a range of payoff here, between 90 and 120 as your analysis said, if your analysis is right, wherever it closes between 19 and 120 depending on it, you get a payoff. But let's say you are extremely good at picking directionality and it, let's say it went to $200 imagine, I'm just giving an example. You thought it would only go to 120 but you, your analysis is extremely good in terms of directionality. It went to $200 even in such case, you're not going to make any money like this. There is a slab for which you're going to make money, you're going to make only $30 from this. So if you think about it, there is a limitation here, but still, that is a calculated decision you have taken. But the positive thing is, since you're buying a call and then again, selling another call, you're financing this particular call option with a premium you receive from the short so that's why this takes much lesser money to implement than just buying a call option. Now there are many creative thoughts you might get. You might think, if I am buying a call option and selling one shot one call option, let's say this cost you $10 to buy this call option, but when you short a higher call option, obviously the premium would be less, so you might get only $5 back. So instead of paying $10 to deploy one call option, you paid $10 and shorted another call option received $5 so essentially your cost decreased by 50% but you might get one more creative idea. Instead of just selling one call option, what if I sell two call option so that I can finance this position entirely? But it has its repercussions. This is where we are making a point. You can actually create combinations of calls and puts to express your view in market. But don't overuse it, because if you overuse it, it's its payoff is going to be completely different, and it might move away from the objective you started with. Let's see that example also. So this is a one by two call spread. Essentially, this is not a technical name, but essentially this is what we are doing. We are buying one call option, but instead of selling one higher strike call option, if you sell two call options to actually gain more money, to actually collect more premium, and you finance your long position. In such case, this is how your payoff looks like. This is actually sad. The reason is, if I go back, if I see the initial approach as I have a directionality of upside, and as long as it is above 90, I'm not losing money, and I'm actually making money, even though here I'm limited, at least it is. This is not the place where I'm losing money. But sadly, if you overdo this combination and sell two call options, even though initially you might get more premium and you're happy because you cut down your costs, but during expiry, if it closes above 120 the additional call option you sold is starting to give you loss. So this is a sad scenario, because you did lots of analysis, and you pick the directionality well, but even when it moves in the same direction you expected, here, you're losing money. So this is one caution. Initially, you might get many creative ideas, because when you're selling a call option or a put option, you receive premium that actually pushes us to think waste. Collect more and more premium without a clear objective. That leads to a scenario where you, even if your analysis is right and market reacted as the way you expect it to, you still lose money because you didn't deploy it properly. I know there are many option writers, and there are many people who sell options and collect options premium, and they make money also, but they start with an object too, or with a clear understanding market is never going to go up. If they're very sure about it, they're going to strategize their positions accordingly. But if you take a decision to sell a call option, or sell any kind of an option, or buy any kind of an option without market understanding as a foundation, with only an object of collecting premium as a foundation, then definitely your payoff is going to be impacted.

Speaker 1  50:51  
So there are other ways also, for example, there is this, again, these are not technical, technical names, but there is a combination called risk reversal, where you buy a put option and sell a call option, you can do different things. For example, this is an interesting payoff, where as long as the market doesn't go above 120 you're good, and you're much better when the market is actually falling. So this is a scenario where people will think, if you believe you're bearish in the market, this is just opposite to what the strategy we discussed in the previous strategy, you're bullish, but you're bullish with the limit of price. You're not bullish above one $20 but in this scenario, imagine you're bearish and you believe market is going to fall below 80, and you confidently know market is not going to go above 120 in such case, yeah, you can buy a put option. And since to buy a put option, you need to pay some capital or pay some premium. You can collect that premium by selling a call option of higher strike, but you need to actually not overdo it. It should be balanced. If you do it by again, selling two call options, then payoff is not as favorable as this. So these are interesting combinations you get. This is just the beginning. For example, you have no idea what direction market goes. Like that. That quite happens quite often, because maybe during fed releases for interest rates or any kind of financial meetings are budget sessions or earnings reports, etc, or major economic reports. People doesn't know what direction market would go, but they definitely know that where what direction it might go, market can go crazy. Market might have more volatility. So these are the scenarios where you deploy a straddle again. This is also we kind of discussed in the last class, where if you believe the stock would go up, maybe you might buy a call. If you believe it would fall, you might buy a put. But if you believe you don't know what direction it might go, you can buy a straddle, where you buy an at the money call, also at the money put. And interestingly, it has a payoff in such a way that whatever direction it goes, you're going to make money. But the disclaimer is, this is just a payoff. This is not a profit and loss chat, because it has costs involved. Because at a quick glance, it looks like, Yeah, any any direction I'm making money. Yes, you would, but first you should recover your costs. Similarly, with strangle, also, strangle is a bit it's, for example, if you have to buy a call and they put it at the money, it's costly affair. That's why people deploy strangles, where you bit out of the money. Contracts you would buy, instead of buying at the money, you buy a go bit out of the money so that the calls and puts are cheaper. So you buy a bit out of the money call and out of the money put, and then you deploy this. But here you're not going to make any money if the price is between 120 and 80, whichever the contracts you bought for a strangle but if there is an extreme move, you start making money. So this is quite common in the markets, because it's cheaper to deploy. And if you are confident that the market move is going to be extreme, then people deploy this. But again, if you think about it, this, this is actually not possible to do it in an equity like, for example, I have a favorite stock, let's say ABC, and if I am very confident I don't know what direction it goes, then what is the point in trading, right? How can you strategize to trade in that scenario? Your hands are tied in equities, but when it comes to options, yeah, that you have a ways to express your opinion on the market through trades like this beautiful strategy strangle. But as I'm saying, this is all at a surface level. This is not at all a approach you need to you need to take directly when you're taking a decision to trade options. You need to be more nuanced. We will slowly add those nuances, and we will try. To understand how detail you can go about it. So the very first line is options, model independent feature of options. Because, if you have to be nuanced

Speaker 1  55:13  
so far, you would have understood it's all about at what price you buy this call or a put option that actually defines, or actually dictates how profitable your positions are going to be. So let's understand, what are all the options features that are impacting your position, or, I must say, what are all the factors that change your premium so anybody want to give it a try, what are all the factors that could define the premium of an option? It could be right or wrong, it could be limited. I would encourage you guys to just type it out in the chat,

Speaker 1  56:02  
so essentially, what I want you to think is, what are all the things that make the premium change? For example, I'll give you an example for you. Let's say there is a call option, and it is at, let's say $1 now there is an extremely bullish news what would happen? It would increase demand for call and premium is going to be much higher, right? That is one simpler way to think so, yeah, I see few Okay. Kishore says time to expiry, that is right. Shreyas says IV, that is right. I see many people give similar options. For example, I see time volatility, risk with respect to volatility, Spot strike price. Yes, all of you guys are right. You guys are right. Raghundra says the factors are price, moment change in interest rate and time decay. All this is right? But let's talk at a more fundamental level, when this is irrespective of what option you're talking about. Okay, so we are not talking about or whatever model you're because there are, there are 10s of options pricing models, at least the most famous ones. But irrespective of what options model you're talking about, you need to think about few relationships. So if you want to think about what are all the features that are factors that an options pricing model should have, or how the premium would move. First, you need to understand innate relationships, right? I know you guys have listed out all the factors which is good and all are right. The implied volatility has its own impact. The price of underlying has its own impact, as you guys mentioned, the time to expiry also has its own impact, as you rightly said, but for you to build an intuition, it's not about those factors, it's also about the dynamics among those factors. So let's start with the basic relationships that are there in options market. So these are just few things that you would need to know to kind of think about options marketed as a whole. For example, the very first one we already discussed, the American options are costlier than European options. But as I said, it has nothing to do with the reason the options are listed in it's about the type of options. American options are worth more than European options. The reason is, American options at an intuitive level, they are giving you more functionality, more optionality, right? They are giving you an option to exercise at any point of time. For that reason, you have to pay more premium to acquire these American options for the same underlying if you compare with European options. So this is one relationship. It has nothing to do with what mathematics you are using to calculate premium, etc, for any options or any contract or any underlying this is one relationship that holds and another relationship that holds is longer dated. Options are costlier than shorter data options, because the whole point is, see, the time is a factor here, right here we are talking in terms of American options. But irrespective of that, the time is a concept for you. If you have more time to expiry, there are more instances you can have for the options contract to become in the money. What I meant is anybody who is buying a call option, they would want to get some positive payoff out of it. In another terms, they would want it to be in the money when they're actually closing the position. I'm taking an example of American option because it makes it simpler to understand, because you can close your position at any time. You can. Exercise your option at any time. So in such case, it's intuitive to think that if the in example, of one year versus one week option right, if you have an American option at a same strike for a same contract, if it has one year to expire, then it's going to actually be more costlier than a one week expiry option, because you have more time for the option to become profitable and for you to take action. So this is a common relationship you would see. And then another pretty common one is call as an underlying what does it mean? So it's just means

Speaker 1  1:00:41  
few are buying a call option, the premium you pay is never going to be more than the underlying contract itself. For example, if a stock is at $100 the premium would never go above $100 the premium might be for $1 or $2 or, let's say, $10 depending on the strike price. It could be $50 also, but it would never be more than the underlying, because if that is the case, there is no point in buying right like you could have actually easily going by the underlying and then with a shorter, smaller cost itself. Let's take an example and see I'm trying to actually let you understand this intuitively, but there are different ways to prove this. I might show you one example, also the very one you see on screen. There are different ways to prove these relationships, okay, but I'm trying to give you an understanding through intuition. But if you had to actually go and understand this relationship with numbers. Here is an example. We'll try to negate that. For example, I am saying the price of call would never go below the underlying. Now let's take an example of a call option premium greater than the underlying and see, is it a realistic scenario or not. For example, let's take a call option with 100 strike call. So what does it mean? It means you're dealing with a call option which has a strike of $100 and the underlying is at $100 so essentially, you're dealing with the at the money contract. What if, if it is trading at one not $2 ideally, it wouldn't. Theoretically, also it wouldn't. But if this is a scenario, you can actually make unlimited money. If this is a scenario, I'll tell you why. Because if, if you ever see this, you can directly go ahead and sell a call option and buy the stock, because call option is at one or $2 so you sell it, and then you collect one or two as a premium, and go ahead and buy $100 call option so that you can actually have your $2 with you. And whatever happens, if the stock falls, yes, you are making money because you collected the premium. And if the stock goes up, also, you make money because you bought it at 100. So this is how it works out. So for example, if it exercise at 110 the call Currently, it is trading at $100 you have a call option at premium of one or two. So you sold the call option and collected the premium. So what happens if it goes up to one $10 in this case, you would lose $10 you would exercise. But because when you exercise, you have $100 call option, which went to 110 you might lose $10 there. But that is okay, because you can keep a premium of one or two. So this is how it is actually illogical, because, for example, on the other hand, also, if the stock falls to since you bought the stock, you might lose $10 but since you sold the call option, you can actually keep one or two with you. So all this will not happen in real life, because this looks like a glitch where you can make money either way. That is the reason this would never happen, in the sense that premium would never be practically more than the underlying. So that's why call always would be less than underlying. So yeah, this is just one quick and dirty way to kind of get proof for it, but you understand intuitively more right, even irrespect going through all these you can also see if a call is costlier than underline, why would I go and buy a more costlier thing, call option. I would have actually bought an underlying itself. Same thing with put also put options. Value would always be less than strike. It's just the same approach. It's just the same intuition. These are all the different relations you it will actually help. I mean, as we go to next three lectures, also many places we are going to use this particular intuition again. See there is another, another relation, lower strike call greater than higher strike call. So what does it mean? It means, if you were to take a position in a call option, the lower strike call options are going. To be costlier than higher. Strike call, option. See, what does it mean, right? See, I know there is an example, again, again, a contra intuitive way to prove it, but let's just see how the markets are. And let's try to understand from that option, C, SPX.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:21  
Let's just check an option chain.

Speaker 1  1:05:35  
So if you see here, the costlier the options the call options contract goes, if you see the price, the cheaper they go. So on the other hand, I mean, maybe, if I had to put it another way, the lower strike call options are costlier than the highest strike call options, the very simple reason being, these are already in the money, right? 6890 is a contract we are talking about, and the market is about 6940 so these are already in the money. That's free. If you have to pay the they would have higher premium than the contracts with higher strike price. You can actually see this in many exchanges or different exchanges also let us see, This is

Speaker 1  1:06:40  
the beginning of month. We can actually take any month, and you can also see the same behavior here. So this is the lower strike, and this is the highest strike, and lower strike options are costlier. Thing there. This was traded at 1554, and higher strike options are much cheaper comparatively, because it's a relation between in the money and out of the money. You if this is if some contract is already making money at this moment, so you would pay more money for it. So that is one way to think about it. I know you there are different ways to actually visualize that also, but this is more intuitive way. So lower strike call option would always have higher premium than higher strike call option. So all this leads to, like, currently, I just want to discuss few relationships only because this will actually gives you ways to think about market. But then let's maybe after put call parity, let's take a short break, and then we will actually sit and understand what are all the factors, and within the lens of this relation, will understand how these factors works. So this is one more relation. In fact, we would use it when we learn hedging, also in the in probably in what is five and we are doing hedging also, we would come back to this equation. But you don't need to think of this as a equation. It's an important equation, of course, but at a basic level, you need to understand there are few misconceptions in the market. For example, there is one misconception, which is, if a call options premium is going up. Some might think put options premium will go down, not necessarily, because it's not that straightforward. There is a relationship that holds true between call and a put, so that is explained by put call parity. Essentially what it means is a call and a put are same. So maybe, if there is an increase in volatility, you might not see just the change in call option. You might see the change in put option also, because there is a relation between a call and a put and this is how on at any question level, this is how it is built. A call minus put, if you subtract the call premium and the put premium, if you subtract put premium from call premium, it is equal to s minus x into e power minus RT. This actually tells you the spot price minus strike into E, power minus RT. So another way to think is if you essentially have a portfolio, if you have a call option, and if you have a put option and you you also have a underlying contract, how are they related? I mean, mathematically, if you have a portfolio, you already have a portfolio of a stock now you have portfolio of calls and puts also. And how are they related? Essentially, this is how they are related. See, there are different ways to talk about put, call parity right now. I'm only touching the surface because as we move forward, I'm going to explain you the same equation in different angles right now to understand what would the key takeaway at this fundamental moment is the call and the put behaves in a certain way. And. Their behavior is explained by this equation. I see somebody raise their hand, maybe. Let's see if there is any unanswered question. You guys can type it out if you have any questions, because if it is unanswered, I'm definitely going to pick it after the break.

Speaker 1  1:10:19  
Yes. So let's move forward. Let me go back. What I was saying was there is a relationship between call and a put if you see an extreme change in a call options premium, it's not going to be just on that call option. It's going to impact the put option. Also, for example, let's say there is an extreme increase in volatility. Theoretically, during extreme volatile phases, the premiums are going to be high to understand intuitively, right? For example, let's say there are more road extents happening, then definitely you see the premium of that incidence also goes up. So if you had to subscribe to, let's say house insurance where you have a home near a beach, right, or at a Bay Area where you are susceptible to more cyclone. So definitely, your premium is going to be high. But if you are at a more secured region, then your premium is going to be low. Similarly, even in the market, when there is lots of uncertainty, or, technically, when there is more volatility. In such case, your premiums are going to be high. But it just doesn't impact only the call option. It would impact put option also. So if you, if you, if you see a change in a call option, you can definitely calculate what change you see in a put option also. So this is where this is going to help you. For example, if you want to take a long position in a call, you can also take a short position in a put right.

Speaker 1  1:11:54  
But how are you confidently taking a short position, even though there is an unlimited loss, because, you know, there is a parity among call and a put, and whatever unusual moves in the market, they are reflected in both call and put. So there is no greater worry that you have a directional bet, but you do just only want to deal with calls you can also deal with puts. Just take this example. This is just one way to prove that this relationship holds. There are different ways to think about it also, but this is a most simpler, theoretical and straightforward way. If you form a portfolio of a long put and a short call and long one share, imagine if you have this portfolio, let's try to understand how the value of this portfolio changes at different points of time. So these are just the positions you have, long put, option, short call, option, long stock and overall portfolio value at an initial level, since it is a long put, let's imagine p of x represents the payoff of this long put, since you have a short call, let's represent this value as minus c of x. Since it is a short position and since you have a long position in a stock, let's represent with x. So initially, the value of this entire portfolio is summation of all these three individual values, which is s plus p of x, plus p of x minus a of x, but let's see how this value changes at expiry. Expiry can happen in two ways. Either the market could fall or market could go up. Let's take a scenario where the market actually fell. Means the spot price is less than the strike price, the strike price of the contract you have in such case, definitely, if the market fell, your long put is going to have a payoff which is x minus s. If you remember, the payoff is maximum of x minus s, comma zero. Since this is a position where the market actually fell, this is going to be x minus x. And for your call option, called options becomes worthless when there is a decrease in market. So it becomes zero. Long stop becomes S only. So wherever the s actually represents the current strike price, so current spot price. So in such such case, if you just add these, it becomes x. So what I wanted to tell you is x represents the value of this portfolio when there is a decrease in the market or decline in the market, on expiring. On the other hand, if the market goes up, I'm sorry. On the other hand, if the market goes up, it's just a opposite scenario, where your put becomes worthless, and since you shorted the call, your payoff is minus s, minus x, and essentially this is also x. So what it actually tells you is, if you have a portfolio of a call and a put, an underlying in this format, irrespective of what would happen at expiry, their value stays the same. So this tells you the relationship between a call and a put. It actually stays, holds true in all market conditions. So you could see this is the same as this. This is the rearrangement of the values, and this is one way to kind of get confidence on this equation, because entire market is depending on this. Put call parity. If there is no parity, there would be more arbitrage opportunities and instability. We'll see more examples of how this impacts different different things. In fact, we will also see how this is derived, right? I mean, who came up with this? I mean, there is a theoretical way to understand this, but mathematically also this can be derived, maybe after some time in this class itself. I'm going to show you that. So what are the implications, right? Yeah, okay, let's say zoom or let's all agree there is put call parity. Now what are the implications on the market? The very first interesting observation is many people will get this doubt at what strike price you have a same call and a put option, in the sense the premium of a call on the put option are same, because if I go to any kind of let me actually show you options chat, if I check it here, left side you see calls, and right side you see puts, and the call is Call of this particular strike is 1554, and put is 47 so if I go down, it keeps on decreasing under, say, at the same time the last traded price keeps on increasing. Is there a strike price for which the price of a call and a put is going to be same? Yes, you can actually derive it using put call parity.

Speaker 1  1:16:42  
So the equation is C minus p is equal to s minus x into e power minus r2, so if you want to know at what strike price, the call and put premiums are going to be same, you just need to kind of subtract this. It becomes zero, and you can actually derive a strike. So there is would be a strike which is a multiple of e, power, RT, and also the spot price at which you have same call and put so this is one interesting implication. But if you ask me, Why is it required? Yeah, there might be people who would want to deploy a shadow, or who would want there are people who buys a call and put at the same striper. Also, there are combinations like that. They do it because there is a put call parity. They know the expectancy of change in premiums, etc, and this is one implication of it. And there are other things also, like, if you ask me, What about American options, right? Because so far, we are talking about European options. Is there a concept of put call parity in American options? I don't think so, because entire put call parity equation is depending on this particular term, capital T. Capital T is the amount or number of days you're holding your calls and puts, because in a finance term, this actually tells you impact of interest rate in holding this position. But let's not complicate it at a more fundamental level, there is a component capital T in this very equation, which is a representation of how long you're holding these calls and puts, but in American option, you have no limitation. You can close your positions at any point of time, right? So for that very reason, in American options, you don't have put call parity, or this is not the way to study the relation between put and a call, because the capital T is not constant. It is quite dynamic, and you can close your position at any point of time. So this is the reason people are going to actually there are different mathematical ways to approach American options, because there is no static capital T. So if you're dealing with European options, yes, you can definitely use it, but if you're dealing with American options, you can't use this equation. In fact, you can't use Black Scholes equation also. So for that reason, these are limited European options, and these are the European options, are the contracts that are widely used by retailers and index options also, or European options. So there is no issue with it. So this is just an introduction to different implications we might see. The major one is because there is put call parity, we can confidently do volatility trading in the sense you can have a mathematical approach to volatility trading, and it behaves the way it is expected to behave. And because of that only, we were also adding different combinations of calls and puts to express our opinion. Imagine there is no put call parity, and call behaves the way it does and it is not in sync with put, then you can't confidently create options for. Positions by having a call spread, or sometimes you might add a put position. I'm going to be going to have one example in OTS five where we're going to create an options combination and we're going to study and in fact, we believe that is more riskier then we start selling one put option. So all these combinations, or complicated approaches are possible only because there is put call parity. So let's take some short break here, because now we are going to take all the knowledge or discussions we had now and start getting into pricing of options, which gives us more understanding of why the options price is the way it is, as you guys just listed out, all these are the factors that are going to influence options price. So let's take maybe five minutes break, and meanwhile, if you have any questions, just type it out, and let's meet in five minutes and continue this. Bye.

Speaker 1  1:26:11  
Hi, everyone. Can you confirm if you guys can see my screen? I'll just, let's just continue from you.

Speaker 1  1:26:36  
Okay, thank you. I had to rejoin because I guess there was an issue with Zoom. I don't see any open questions, but maybe if they're deleted, can you guys send the questions again? If there are any unanswered questions, I'll just wait for a minute. Take couple of minutes. And if you guys have any questions, just type it out. If they are not answered it and I'll just take it up right now.

Speaker 1  1:27:33  
Okay, I see there was one question By Shreyas Madan, how to calculate PCR, okay, which is put call parity, put call ratio. I mean, you mean put call ratio, isn't it? Yeah, basically, again, it is put call parity only during market hours. See, actually it is much, much. It makes more sense when it is during market offs. Because what do you need to calculate this put call parity, or any kind of ratios you need from put and call? Of course, first you need put and a call the prices of put and call the spot price of underlying and also the other two, what you have, which is current price of the strike, or essentially, let me go to the equation, which is capital X and interest rate. So these, these things, anyway, you have kept R and T wouldn't change as much as other things changes during the market because capital x is constant. Capital S, P and C are dynamic. So what? How people use this equation? They just calculate the LHS and RHS and see if they are almost same or exactly the same. Should be almost or exactly the same. In such case, the put colority is holding and there is no arbitrage opportunity. Or else, people might buy a call and sell a put to bring the gap down to zero. So even in real market house, it is simpler, but let's I'm going to explain a Pythonic way to calculate P and R, if you're talking about theoretical call input, then that also can be taken care maybe we'll cover pricing concepts. And before we take the next break, we will go through the Python code, and then we go for Greeks. I don't see any other questions open, but if you have any, okay, so yes, is volatility spread with respect to budget? See this question? I see there is a question, okay? Madhusudana, I don't know what you're asking, but yeah, your equation is right, but essentially, that's what you use when you're dealing with put call parity. But if you have any additional questions on it, Madhu, maybe you can definitely type it out. Meanwhile, let me close what Shreya is Madan was asking. Could you please explain volatility spread with respect to budget? Ideally, this should have been this volatility. It is spread during budget should have been strategies before the budget starts itself, right? Because the volatility most of the times, whenever there is a major event, that particular event brings in lots of volatility before the event actually happens, and that's where most of the money making opportunities are. But before budget and after budget, also, people would actually create arbiters and create volatility positions. One of arbiters, they just create spreads. So if you're talking about pre budget, then what are your expectations of the budget takes lots of importance in taking a position. Let me give you an example. Let's say you have no clue what would happen in budget. Of course, nobody has any clue, because that is very contained information. So but only thing you know is volatility is going to be extremely high, isn't it? So in such case, you can actually deploy positions that gives you money as the volatility increases. For example, let's say 10 days before budget you can buy a straddle, because as the volatility increases, these positions are going to be more costlier and costlier, and on the Budget Day, you can sell back that straddle and make money. So in fact, we have a 30 minute discussion on how to deal with these events, events based volatility trading with options in OTS four. But still, I can explain you right away with budget or with earnings or with any kind of major releases. There are three ways you can trade. First is before the event happens. Second is on the event day. Third is understanding how the market reacted to this event. If you are giving to this budget, ideally, a bit you can buy a volatility position 10 days ago, because the peak of volatility you see on or just a day before Budget Day. So 10 days before, you can buy volatility, and as you reach the Budget Day, you can close it. Essentially, there are different ways to trade also. This is a most straightforward way.

Speaker 1  1:32:15  
But what happens on the Budget Day? Right on the Budget Day, ideally, on the Budget Day, whenever you're talking about spreads, you deal with spreads in terms of time to expiry of contract. Now you deal with the long term contract and short term contract. And people generally sell the near term contract and buy the long term contract. Few things I'm telling you right now I might be worshiping and I might be moving forward, but we have a dedicated case study on it, just giving a example of how these things works. And post budget. I'm not sure if you guys heard about the term pad, which is called post earnings, announcement drift, whenever there is earnings, if there is a movement in the market in a singular direction, that direction is going to sustain for few months. But it is not only limited to earnings. It is also in context of major events like Union budget or a certain increase in interest rates by Federal Reserve, etc. So whenever you're talking about volatility spread during these major events, you need to understand at what level of this particular event, either pre event, post event, or during event. You're dealing with it. And the simplest way to understand is study where the volatility could go. There are easy patterns in volatility that you can explore and go with it, but if you want to study where the price could go and take positions, it's going to be very, very difficult. So the question Shreyas asked about volatility spread is a very relevant question when it comes to major events. So this is how we approach this, but more detailed with examples. We have it in audience for anyway, we are going to discuss there. But yeah, we're going to revisit that. So then the next question is, which David the fact that put call parity doesn't hold good for American options. Does it mean arbitrators opportunities could arise? So no, actually, no, because here, when you're talking about European options, there is lots of importance of this relation should hold true within put and call. But when you talk about American options, since the relation doesn't hold true, and then the there is no value of or there is no deciding factor of how long you're holding your position. Arbitrage opportunities doesn't depend on this relation. There would be arbitrary opportunities because of different factors, but not because of put call parity. So there would be arbitrage opportunities in all exchanges. And in fact, exchange actually maintains books to cut these arbiters opportunities, right? There are market makers who actually make sure there is no arbiters opportunity, and there, most often are not those market makers are paid by or hired by exchanges itself to for the better health of the exchanges. So though. The opportunity are already curved by exchange, but between different exchanges, there might be arbitrage opportunities that is actually generally being explored by traders. But the reason is not put call parity, because there is no parity. The arbitrage is there no not that, but for different reasons, how the pricing happens, how it sudden change in demand happens, and if the bid, ask spread cannot dictate or cannot consume that particular sudden shift in demand and supply, you would have arbiters, but that would be short lived. And what happens if you see an arbiter, you go ahead and take a position, right because it's free money, and as you take more positions, the arbiters gap will be filled, and there would be an arbiter. So it's just a common cycle with young arbitrage. This is answered. Let's move ahead with pricing concepts. As you as many of you guys answered this. You guys are right, but there are a few couple more things that not anybody mentioned. But whenever you are talking about an options pricing model, of course we are going to talk about only Black Scholes. But before we go that, irrespective of whatever the model would be, how do you approach for it? Let's study and then we will discuss the equation of Black Scholes.

Speaker 1  1:36:13  
Another way to understand this is, what are all the factors that move the options? Premium is what we are talking right now. The very first one is underlying price. This is quite obvious. If there is a change in underlying price, definitely your premium is going to change, because there would be shifting in the money out of the money at the money, different defined contracts, right? So this is the reason, if you ever have an options pricing model, it should have underlying price as one of its components. The second one is strike, to be specific, how far our contract is from strike. Same case, right? If it is in the money, it would be positive distance. If it is out of the money, it would be negative distance. If it is at the money, it is would be the minimum distance, right? So depending on where the strike is with respect to the underlying also defines the premium, because if, if I believe, if I'm bullish in options contract, let's say a call option, I'm bullish in an underlying and I took a call option, then what would be the costlier shop call option to buy way in the money contract? Right? We have seen this example lower striked calls are costlier. So depending on strike, also your premium changes. Then the interest rates again, depending on interest rates, how costly or cheaper the interest rates are, people are going to actually come and trade different asset classes. If the interest rate changes, the demand for these contracts also changes. But it doesn't mean people are not going to trade. It's just mean that the contracts might become more costlier. So there is a straightforward relation between rates and premium. There comes the dividends. So what is the dividend like? Is there an expected dividend if you hold this position to expiry? So sometimes you might have an underlying if you held it through expiry or through the record date of the dividend, you would get additional income, right? Dividend is an additional income you're getting. So depending on all these factors, people can actually judge how much premium they could pay to this particular contract. Because theoretically, whenever you're dealing with all these kind of approaches, you think you're taking a delivery of options when you exercise for all practical purposes. In real life, most of the exchanges gives you cash settlement, in the sense, if you have a long call option and if it expired in the money you were able to buy that, you get transfer of shares of that particular option at a cheaper price, but at a practical purpose in real life. You would get the money right. It would be cash settled. If the underlying is at $100 and you have $90 call, you get $10 into your trading account. So all these things would be useful to actually dictate how much the premium would be. But these are simpler things to understand, right? Because if somebody asks you, what happens to premium if price goes up? It's very straightforward to say, price goes up, call, premium will goes up, go up, similar for other cases. But what happens with time and volatility? This is where it becomes, sometimes a bit counterintuitive or sometimes linear thinking will not help, because time, time, value of money, depends on what contract you're dealing and what direction you're trading. The definitive way to think about time means, as you reach the expiry, your premium will decay. So I'm going to show you some examples. When we talk about Greeks, you get more understanding of this, the behavior of this, but at a theoretical level, the time also impacts the premium. Depending on how many days it has to expiry, people are going to either pay more or pay less, say. Am with volatility also. But here is an interesting disclaimer volatility. See, it is about how volatile the market could be, not every time it is about the current volatility, because you're dealing with X contracts that express in future, isn't it? So let's say the markets are pretty calm now, but during expiry, or in the week of expiry, maybe there is a major event that is planned, like Shreyas was mentioning. Let's say there is a union budget, then the volatility is going to play a major part in deciding how much premium it should have. As we are nearing the any major event like Union budget or federal interest rates, there would be increase in volatility, so they're going to be much costlier. Your premiums are going to be extremely high. But that is just to give you an intuition. Let's understand how these things are tied with the equations. But before that, there are pretty common doubts, even I used to get when I probably 13 years back, 40 years back, when we are actually going through options theory and doing certifications, etc. The very first question we used to get is, why don't we have returns in our equations? Because these things are pretty straightforward. At least one or two out of it would be assumed by anybody like or can be predicted by anybody. But some people might also answer. Maybe we would consider returns as one of the inputs to decide, because as a trader, this is all you think, right, if a stock is giving you good returns, then it's premium for calls. Could be costlier. This is how our thought process goes but whenever you go for mathematics of options, you rarely see returns being in equations because,

Speaker 1  1:41:49  
because of the very simple reason, returns about past right? Whenever I'm talking about returns of any contract, I'm talking about what happened in the past that necessarily, tell you what kind of returns you get in future, because when you're talking about options, you're always looking ahead. You're always talking about what could happen due till expiry or on the expiry or during expiry. So that's why the past returns would never be inputs for options pricing. The same way. There are different scenarios where there are some unusual behaviors. Why don't I just show you some chat, and let's try to build some intuition from there, let's check this. Let's go back to the same chat. Sorry, yes, let me delete this. So there is a concept of drift that works here. This is essentially where I'm going to Because currently, let's say, if you're taking position in any of this arena, you would see a consistent buying pressure in the sense, let me just pick two random days. Let's just pick these three random days. Imagine I'm an options buyer, right? Let's say, imagine I'm dealing with call options on any of these three days, even if the options prices are a bit costlier, even the call option prices are a bit costlier, as long as you see the underlying is in an uptrend, you don't mind buying that call option by paying additional premium. And also, even the sellers would actually ask you to pay more money to capture any kind of call options in this kind of scenario, because naturally, there is a directionality that is there in the market that leads to something called drift. Drift is nothing but a directional mode that a market would have naturally, depending on the current state. If it is an extremely bull market, then you see a drift to the higher side, irrespective of any positive news or any trigger, the market naturally would move in a singular direction, which is an upward direction. Same thing would happen when you see a bear market. Whenever there is a bear market, essentially, it's actually very simple. Any table gym you take is going to deteriorate, because innately, there is no there is a drift to the downside. So where I'm leading to is even drift could be one of the factors that tells you whether the premium, what should be the premium of either call or a put. But so far, we never considered drift. But there are, essentially, these are the fundamental factors that influence us. There are few options pricing models that also talks about drift, and there are some assumptions. Also, every model deals with certain assumption, and not every model consider all input. Is, if you want to capture all inputs, then you might want to use machine learning to deal with options pricing. But currently, we are dealing with just mathematical equations or models that deals with options pricing. Hence, there are different ways to actually capture this, but a traditional model or a model that everybody uses, would not consider drift. For example, if you're talking about Black Scholes model, this is a pretty standard equation, or a closed form equation of a Black Scholes model. So there are different equations for Black Scholes model, but this is the one that exchanges use, or major exchanges used at a fundamental level. Let's understand this, and then have a short discussion on what are the types of models, are there, or other variations of black source models are there? So first, I want you to understand what this equation is and why this is structured, the way structured. Then we talk about the assumptions of black souls model, or how this is used.

Speaker 1  1:46:02  
So looks like a scary equation, but it's very simple to understand. What are we trying to do with Black Scholes model? We are trying to calculate options premium. So the left hand side of the equation, this is what you see, which is a premium. This is an equation for a call option. You also have an equation for put option, but if you go to calculate call option, this is the equation that helps you to give you theoretical call premium. So what are these elements? The variable capital is, as you know, in any literature, most of the times, in options, when you see capital S, that tells you what is the spot price of the contract. Here we are talking about a stock, irrespective of whether it is a stock or a commodity or a bond or anything. The underlying spot price, the current price of the underlying tree is capital S. Then you let's come back to end even later. Then you have capital X, which is a strike price. So let me give you some kind of an intuition, right? Let's say you took a pen and a paper. In fact, there are different you can also calculate. There are binomial methods, or different methods, which we can also have give a shot at calculating these. But at an intuition level, how much should you pay for a call option, like, for example, if you're going for a if you're going to some place and buying fruits, right? Depending on your knowledge, you would judge whether, let's say, you're buying an apple, then you can definitely have your opinion if the apple is costly or cheap, right? Because you've been buying that fruit in different market conditions and different qualities, you can come up with a ballpark number. Similarly, in trading, how do you come up with a ballpark number for a premium? I'll give you an example if I am talking about a chart, right, let's say the same example. Let me just take this example. If I believe the same example of buying options contract at 262 59.48 let's say this is that the money price, and you believe it would go to 286 to take this position. If I tell you, pay me $1,000 premium, obviously you would not pay because the price is expected to do move only by $25 so if it is a movement of $25 Why would you pay $1,000 Right? Definitely not. But if I ask you to pay $1 for you to bet on this moment of $25 you would you definitely make a take that call, basically. So where I'm getting it is entry or a spot price. So let me actually now change this to spot this is the spot price. This is the current price of the this particular contract. And imagine this is strike.

Speaker 1  1:49:10  
So the difference is what I will get right if you remember the equation of a call maximum of different between strike and the spot. So a the difference of this is what dictates how much money I would get, or how much this particular contract should be worth. For that very reason, not only to, not only limited to black, shows any kind of options model you see, you see it in a structure of S minus X, but it's not a simple equation of S minus X. We are multiplying s with something else and x with something else. Now, what are these? So essentially, if you are talking about nd one and even is, it's a cumulative normal distribution of a particular term. Called d1 which is represented by these terms. But I know there are lots of terms here, but at an intuitive level, this will tell you, and even will tell you, if you were to hedge this position, like, whenever we are talking about options, you're talking about hedging, right? So you're talking about hedging your there are other terms that comes, like delta hedging, etc. So right now, just understand these terms will give you a bit of an intuition of how much you can hedge, like, what is the quantity with which you can hedge? Or at an equation level, it is dealing with the differences in the prices and also interest rates and volatility. So this is the term that brings volatility into your equation. Because when I've seen the shown you the example of a chart there, we are only dealing with price. I'm only considering spot price and strike price and trying to kind of judge what could be the premium. But what happened to volatility? Right? That is what you guys also message when I asked about factors that influence just the premium. So volatility, the time with which your product, for which you're going to hold the position, and the gap between capital S and X, how, how much difference that is, where all these things should also be considered. For that very reason, you see the d1 structured in such a way with all those terms. And similarly, d2 as well. So this is the equation, but you can. You don't need to do it on paper. I will. I'm going to give you a Python notebook within 510, minutes. I'm going to deploy that notebook also and explain how this is calculated, the call options, price. But let me give you more. I examples right like or more intuition behind these terms. I know you know what capital S, capital x, c is and r t is, but n d1 and d2 How do you interpret it? Using theoretically, whenever you calculate n d2 means you calculate d2 and then n d2 theory says it is the amount of cash you are exposed to that you can actually see. So that is what you need to deliver. In the sense, whenever you take an options position, depending on whether it is actually making money or not, either you deploy profit scenario and you collect money, or you have a loss scenario where you deliver the money. So essentially, the decision factor is whether it is an in the money scenario or out of the money scenario. So theory says if you could calculate entity that gives you probability whether that particular contract is going to close in the money or out of the money on the expiry date. But this is theory. Okay, whenever we have an equation like this, it comes with an assumption. It assumes that we are dealing with a risk free market, or it has its constraints. So it deals in a risk free scenario, but the markets are not risk related. Markets are not risk neutral. So we are dealing in a scenario where the prices are quite dynamic, and even if you use Black Scholes model and calculate the theoretical call option, that's not going to be the options price you see on any option chain or any exchange data, because people dictate option prices. You and me dictate options prices by participating in buying and selling. So all these actually moves the scenario from risk neutral scenario to risk scenario. So theoretically, this is true, and they do, if you could calculate, it tells you the what is the probability of that contract being in the money or out of the money? But it doesn't work in real life, but at a theory level, that's how the equation is designed. But at a practical level, even if you test it, it's not going to work. But then how are we going to use this? Right? As I was saying, nd two is not probability of finishing in the money. But at a practical level, people are going to use nd one instead of nd two. Let me go back to equation.

Speaker 1  1:54:04  
So this is a bit useful, because we are going to calculate nd one and hedge ratio. It's going to tell you, if you are deploying a hedging strategy, how many shares you need to hedge. I'm but again, this is just an introduction. Right when we actually deploy it. We are going to do a simple example and then use this equation two. But at this level, to understand this equation, this is structured in a way that using these terms, all the terms, you guys message, the strike price, sorry, the strike price, the spot price, the volatility, interest rate, the time to expiry, All this combined, this equation going to tell you, what is the theoretical value of a call option, but what about the put option? Right? When are we going to like? How are we going to calculate put option? It's simple. I think Madhya Sudan was asking, what is the use of that price? Particular formula or any equation. This is one of the use cases. So if you know, if you believe, or if you come up with a theoretical call option value, you can put it in a put call parity equation, and you can calculate what would be the theoretical put option value. If I do the same thing, I'm going to come up with this particular equation. So you can use black souls model for call option and then put that call option value in, put call parity equation, and you get a put option equation also. So you can actually derive it in multiple ways. For example, if you could actually get a put option value, then definitely you can put it in put call parity, and you get a call option, also depending on how you want to approach now, like I have created a Python notebook where it uses a python module called mipian and calculate its put and call both and so you depends on how you want to go about it. But at a theoretical level, you can use Black Scholes model to calculate premium of both call input before we see the notebook, let me actually give you more more knowledge on this Black Scholes model, because it's actually very important to understand what are the assumptions of these models before you kind of use this because someone, one of you, was asking about, what if we are dealing with American options, then the black source model is not the one people use it to price them. So when I say maybe, let's also understand who uses this rate. Because I know model is there. Everybody uses but then, who are these? Everybody? The very first entity that uses Black Scholes pricing model, or any kind of options pricing model, is exchanges.

Speaker 1  1:56:52  
Maybe I'll give you a real life example. If you're talking about buying a vegetable or a fruit, right? If you're talking about buying Apple, then the very first person who should have clarity of the price of Apple is the person who is selling you, isn't it, who listed that particular product in their shop? Similarly, exchange needs a methodology to come up with the price of that contract, or else who decides that price right? Or even an options price. Somebody is writing options. Somebody is creating options. How would they know what would be at what price they need to come up with? The price of the premium of caller put they use models like Black Scholes model, but there are few assumptions of Black Scholes model. That is why it is not it is widely used because of how beautiful this closed form equation is and how we it encompasses the major factors. But still, it assumes there is continuous trading. But it is not a it is an assumption. It's not practical, because trading will not happen continuously. There are post market hours and there are illiquid hours. Also there are some minutes market would never trade. But the major issue with Black Scholes, some people might claim that this is why we don't use it in real life, is constant volatility. Because volatility is not constant. If you see, if I go back to the equation, when you're calculating b1 you have a volatility term. But if this volatility changes, this call option value change. So if I have to come up with a theoretical call option value, if I put in the current volatility, it would only tell me the current value of this particular call option. Next minute the volatility changes, the call option value would change. So I can't claim this should be the fair value of a call option, but still, Black Scholes assumption is that it is a constant volatility, because without assumption, you can never come up with a closed form. There are different ways, or there are different options pricing model. For example, hedge 10 model is one common model people use, which gives you options value based on dynamic nature of volatility, but that practically, you can't use it in real life, because if you're as if your correct fair value is changing every second, then which value you use right? But when people are dealing with high frequency trading, high frequency options trading, they would use those stochastic calculus or continuous volatility approaches, but for a retail trader or an exchange, this is good enough. Even exchanges doesn't just use single volatility, but they measure volatility different days of different hours of the day. Some exchanges takes sample volatility four times a day, and accordingly they calculate the premium. And there are other assumptions. Also, they assume there is log normal distribution within the prices or returns, but that that is actually not right, because there this actually theoretical, but still you can't assume. A distribution to the prices, or distribution to the returns, mostly about the prices, because you now you don't have the entire price series right. In future, something else might happen, and it would impact distribution. But without these assumptions, you can never come up with an options model. That is the whole point. You can never come up with a closed form solution in finance without some kind of assumptions. Similarly, you assume there is a risk free interest rate you but that also could change essentially. So you need to recalibrate your inputs as these changes. Initially, we were saying dividend is one of the factors, but we don't see any dividend value or dividend variable in our Black Scholes model, but there are different variations of black souls model, which also takes dividend. There are different models also which take dividends. But the basic black source model everybody uses doesn't consider dividend similarly at a practical level, if there is any model that is going to tell you about what should be the fair price, you should also consider the transaction costs, but the actual doesn't. But in OTS five, we are going to deal with this transaction costs also, because, if you're talking we are going to discuss delta hedging, etc, so we should actually consider the transaction cost. Without that, you can't optimize our trading approach, but there is a limitation in BSM, but we will find other ways to deal with it. But this is for European style options. That is a main deciding factor. Because you have a

Speaker 1  2:01:41  
you have holding period as one of the elements in this. So this is why this is only being used for European options, for American options. There may be other methods or other models. And again, just like any other finance model is assumes markets are efficient, which is not, which may not be completely true in all cases. But these are the assumptions. These are the boundaries in which black souls model operates in. But there are many scenarios where you would want to calculate this particular premium, but I'm going to tell you more practical scenarios, how you're going to use it to see the very first one is risk management, right? How are they being used? If you were able to calculate the theoretical options premium, then you can actually judge how overvalued or undervalued current options values are. And secondly, using this Black Scholes model, we are going to calculate options Greeks. And that's where most of the utilization of this knowledge goes in, because at this moment we might feel, why should we actually calculate an options premium? It's already there in the market. If I open an option chain, I could see an options premium, right? Why should I use this closed form equation to calculate it? But more practically, you need this equation because you it will help you to calculate options Greeks. And using those options Greeks, you can actually manage your risk. See, this is, this is the heart of OTS four, five, where you're going to use these options Greeks, which are fundamentally based on Black Scholes model, and extract few risk metrics also. That's where you have delta hedging also. But at this moment, we are not discussing what delta hedging is, but delta hedging is one of the ways you actually manage your options position, which we have more practical examples as we move forward. Of course, volatility trading. So in the last class, also we discussed we would use some volatility trading techniques to capture volatility. But how are we going to use it? Right? We are going to use it by extracting the Vega of a position. So Vega is one of the options Greeks, again, calculated based on Black Scholes model. Similarly, there are inter exchange arbiters opportunities like people calculate theoretical value of options and compares in different exchanges, how these exchanges listed, and they would take arbitrary opportunities. But this is this, again, not for retail traders, but these are some of the practical applications. Last but not least, the most important one is option strategies. So this is where we are going to discuss the application of black souls model more, which is to create option strategies, so depending on how the premium is ranking, or for different strike prices, and how the premium changes as these different things change. For example, you can ask me, Warren, can I buy a call option today and sell it in 20 days? Then I would ask you, where do you think the price would go in 20 days. Then you can come up with your own forecast of price. Then you and me can actually put this value in the options pricing model, which is Black Scholes, and see how the premium changes. Then we would get an idea. Okay, if I take a call option position at $10 if the price goes as I expect. Can I actually close the position before expiry? Just to get money out of this premium appreciation, these kind of an answers you would get. In fact, we do some exercises too together on the same See, that's about black shoes. But before we go to Options Greeks, let me present you the options notebook we have. So this options notebook, you can find it in your LMS, and essentially, it's exactly a very short notebook. If you don't have this particular python module available in your system, just install it.

Speaker 1  2:05:38  
I'm sure in the version you have any elements it would have been commented out. Just make it active, delete this and then run this once so that it's going to install maybe an mibian is a library that is going to help you with functions that you need to calculate premium or any other things using black swans. In fact, you can also calculate Greeks also. In the next class, we are going to use Python to calculate Greeks too. But in this class, let's just stick to just pricing. Again, I created a function for easier implementation, because I know these are all the factors which we would have discussed in class. Right? We discussed stock price, strike, price, interest rate, days to expiry. These are the things that are going to impact your options premium. For that very reason, I created a function where you input these values and see how the options premium will change, or how to calculate this options premium. So this is a function which I'm talking about where you can also go through the comments, where I've written a detailed comments on why coded like the way it is. But essentially, you have a function where you give these as inputs. You can also give what option type you want. If you do call, it will going to give you call option value. If you put it's going to give you put option value. Let's see an example. So all these things that I will listed as input to functions. Those are the things you can actually define here. You can edit these. Also, if you want to give one, not five, and give one not 500 can you 100 and give stock price, strike price, the current interest rate. Just assume zero. You can change it and days to expiry, I gave it as 30. Volatility this also, you can change more, more ways to calculate volatility. Also in the next class we are going to discuss. And if it is a call, just run this, and it's going to give you price. For example, if you change this, change Dave text where you see prices changing. So essentially, there are different ways you can use this. If you want put option. Just just run this particular cell. You just give put and then. So this, this is going to give you the call and put value. So, but mind you, this is just theoretical value. If you want to know what is a real call input value, just go to your option chain and find the relevant contract and then see where they are trading currently. But yeah, you can actually practice this in your free time. So this is again, again. Why are we discussing about black souls model? At least you should intuitively know what kind of structure a pricing model would have and what are the inputs for it. But more practical implementation, that's where the options Greeks comes in. So whenever you have option positions you like, for example, if I have a if I have a position, let's say I have a stock position. What are all the parameters I see to understand how risky my long position is? Let's say I have a long position. If you ask me, I'll see how the volumes are. I'll just see if I if I am actually, if I have enough volumes or not, because I believe it should go up, but just because I bought it, it shouldn't go right. Even there should be enough volumes and other people also should buy it for it to go up. And I might also see how the trend is currently. It is in an uptrend, but I see there is a pullback. Now I'll see whether the buying is happening in the same trend or not. I might have my own risk metrics to actually study whether my how risky my position is. Similarly, if I have a call option position, how do I judge this position right? I'm sorry.

Speaker 1  2:09:37  
So sorry, yeah, if I have a call option, how do I judge my position, how do I make sense of at what scenario we are actually deploying these options and how they're behaving? That's where your options. Greeks comes in. So we calculate few Greeks. I'm sure some of you might have heard about delta, but there are other Greeks also Delta, Gamma, Vega. A row. And there are different different Greek names also that are there, which generally we would not have heard also, because that is a trader jargon, people would have used some name, and it would have been a technical thing, but theoretically, you can create any kind of options Greek. That's what we are going to discuss in this class. After break, take a five minute break. Any questions you have, just type it out. And after the break, I'm going to continue the class, and at the end of the class, I'll answer all the unanswered questions or any kind of doubts that are left for you. But after this particular five minute break, we're going to discuss what options Greeks are, how they are structured, and we see some behavioral traits of these Greeks, because this is going to be a good foundation for OTS four, because in OTS four, we are going to use this Greeks a lot in our discussions and in our practical implementations. So right now in this class, we are limited to getting an idea of what the definitions of these Greeks are and also how these are structured. In the next class, we are going to move more practical put this into use to strategize options combinations. So let's meet in five minutes and then continue this class.

Speaker 1  2:15:35  
Um, hi everyone. Let's go through the unanswered questions before we continue maybe see there are three, four questions. One, there is a common question by vira Raja and also agreeing Gupta. So both are asking about what is his volatility in this particular notebook we discussed about, let me show you the notebook. So in this notebook, volatility, this is annualized volatility, essentially, yeah, I think Viraj was also saying, can I give volatility as percentage of standard deviation in the notebook? So essentially, volatility is nothing but the volatility of daily returns, right? So you can definitely calculate the standard deviation of daily returns, and that would be your volatility. But as I said, in the next class, we are going to discuss multiple ways to measure this volatility, because as of now, this is right, you can just take standard deviation of daily returns, but important thing is you should give annualized volatility. That is the most important thing. There is other way also you, if you know implied volatility value, if you could find implied volatility value, and in a website, you can also use IB value directly, because implied volatility is, again, it's already standardized and it's in percentage, you can use either of it. But again, somebody was asking interest rate. I guess they're asking about discount factor. But essentially, I guess they're asking about interest rate. I guess Arvind Kumar was asking discount factories. What exactly is it ordinary rate? So it is interest rate I'm talking about, yes, this is, you can get it from Treasury contracts, essentially, if the Treasury, you can take 91 day treasury contracts that is going to give you, what is the risk free interest rate? Just what for theoretical characteristic, it's taking zero you, depending on the market conditions, on where you are, you can definitely use risk free interest rate. But Narayan Sujit is asking, Can we have a quick summary of stuff till? No, please, definitely. Okay, before we go to Greeks, let's have a quick summary and then continue with the Greeks. Just one second. Yes. So so far, what we discussed, let's go through the slides itself. So so far, we discussed the basic terms and terminology essentially what an options contract is, and how do you dissect a premium right like intrinsic and extensive value. But that leads to categorization of options as in the money, out of the money and add the money, which tells you what is the moneyness of an option. We also explore different types of options, but then we did like we stick to European options. That's what most of the retail traders actually trades. And there are other types also, which are pretty exotic, which are not commonly seen in the markets also, but they exist. And then we had a discussion on the approach for options trading, even though it looks very complex, and why is it not complex? And why is it simple in the sense why it is pretty straightforward, but for us to have a straightforward conversation and options, we can definitely claim easy contract. But why are we claiming like that? Right? How are you making sure it is not complicated? Because you think in a structured way. You discuss about payoffs. Whenever you have options contract, you talk about payoffs. You understand the behavior of option at different strike prices and different experience through payoffs. So that's what we discussed about, like how to study basic payoff diagram, but then using this, how can you create combinations? So that's where we went for trade example, where we discussed about hedging, which is a pretty simple combination and pretty most used combination where you have an options, you have an underlying position, but you took a hedge by adding a put position, which leads to this kind of a payoff. But this is not just limited to hedging. You can also take directional bit. So that's where we are. Talked about direction options, and we also discuss. Two different issues with actually, what are the difficulties in taking an option position? Right? Because it's pretty common, common to take options position which which are very cheaper. That's what beginners do. But it should be a structured and mathematical approach. But right now, we didn't discuss this approach because in volatility trading, that's where you discuss because if it is directional, but it's pretty simple, you buy it at the money. But when you're dealing with straddles and triangles, let's say we are dealing with triangles. Let me

Speaker 1  2:20:34  
I'll give you that example when we go there. But then we discussed about call spread, because we are talking about directional bets, you might also think, yeah, it might go up, but it might not go as high as people are expecting. And you then you can have a call option, but to save the course, you can also sell a higher strike call option. This is what we discussed. And we discussed the issues with over overdoing this particular approach. And we discussed risk reversal too, but then we landed upon another combination, which is a straddle and a strangle. And this is where most of the difficulty comes in, because theoretically, we can make sense of it, buying a put and a call with different strike but what are those strike prices? At what price you need to exactly buy it? Here I showed 80 and 10, which is $20 away from at the money? Why not $30 Why not $10 why only $20 This is where your strike price decision would come in. And that's where I'm saying we would we're going to discuss when we actually come back to the strategy in OTS four. Then we focused on two things. The first thing is, there are some relations that holds true in market that we explored different relationships that are there in the market, essentially in options market. But then we didn't just stop there, what are the implications of it? And then from there, we discussed, how are we going to list down different factors that influence the premium? That's where we discuss the pricing concepts with a list of inputs. And most of you already kind of predicted these inputs in the list, but but any kind of options pricing model, it would be good to have these because it's pretty common sensical to expect that these would impact your pricing. And that's where we landed upon options value using the actuals model with this equation, where this is, again in a common structure of s minus x by adding other elements into it. And we also discussed another equation, which is put equation. Essentially you take the call equation of Black Scholes and put it in, put call parity equation, and you get this. If you don't want to do it, just calculate call option value from Black Scholes and put it in black soul, put it in call put parity equation. Again, you can get this either way. You need to know there are assumptions. So we discussed on assumptions and also the approaches that you that are quite practical when you use bayesm. But how are we going to use this? That's where we are going to Greeks. Because when we talk about risk management, or anything out of all these five, the four risk management, delta H, volatility trading and option strategies for all these you need to know Greeks. That's where we landed. Which are Greeks? That's a short like, I must say, a quick recap of what had happened so far. But let's take a bit slow from here, because options Greeks. See, it's very easy to get a Greeks number. You can just Google it and you get it. You don't need to calculate it, but it's not about the calculation of Greeks. But for example, there are technical analysis analysts that actually trades markets. Okay? So when they see the chart, they quickly tell you what trend the market is in, what are the supports and decisions is, and they would get an intuitive feel whether the market is extremely they have extreme momentum in the market or not. There are other traders who goes through numbers, they calculate MACD, they calculate RSA, compare if they're overbought or not, and then tell you some analysis. Both might sell you same thing, but both will explain you from different intuitive points of view, right? So building that intuition is actually very important. You can definitely come up with numbers and then verify what level it is in all these things, but you should also have an intuition that is where the edge comes in. And so that's why today we are going to build intuition of options. Greeks, essentially, what are these? Greeks? Mathematically speaking, these are partial derivatives. But for the people who I'm not sure if everybody knows what a derivative is or a partial derivative, but I'll give you a intuitive example. Um, see it will okay. If I am talking about options Greeks, let me give a simple example in options Greeks only if I have a call option, it's pre let me. Let me just write it.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:22  
Let me take this yes, let's say I have a call option. Strike is equal to $100 premium is equal to $1 spots. It's a

Speaker 1  2:25:48  
simple example. I have a call option. I have a call option at a strike of $100 its premium is $1 means I pay $1 to buy this call option. And currently, market is trading at $100 right? And let's assume volatility is equal to 10% and time to expiry is equal to 10 days. Let's start with this example, for people who don't know what a partial derivative is, I'll try to give you a I'll try to actually build some intuition for it. So let's say I spent money and buy this position, right? I have this call option, and I bought it at this price, and these are the conditions, conditions. Okay? So 100 is the underlying value. 10% is volatility, and there are 10 days to expiry. So I if I get a doubt, my first doubt about one, what happens if price falls to $50 what will happen to my premium? So you spend $1 How can you make money? For example, if this $1 went to $10 you can just sell it at $10 and make money that also you can do right? But you know, there are no stop losses, isn't it? See, so far, we are used to have a stop loss when you're trading stocks, but now I got it out. I don't want to lose my $1 maybe I would lose only $50 very first question I would get is, what happened to my premium if my price falls to 50, or when would my premium become point $5 what kind of change in strike should be there? Or mean, what kind of change in spot should be there to decrease my premium from one to point five, or you should have a doubt, when will this premium go to $10 so if I'm only thinking about price, I'm asking, how would price impact my premium? This is what a partial derivative tells me. This is in a mathematical term. I say rate of change in price with respect to rate of change in premium. All right, I will write, maybe I will write premium with respect to stock price. So this is what a partial derivative is. What it says is, how would my premium change with a change in stock price? So I know stock change in this spot price, or I can also say stock price, this would impact my premium. So what is the impact of change in this on this is what partial error to tells me, but essentially, there is one Greek that tells me this. Then second, I might get it out. What happens if the markets volatility becomes extremely high? How would it impact my premium. Then again, I can ask a question. I can ask a question, saying, What would happen to premium if the volatility spike to 30% so for this, there is another. Again, I do partial derivative, I would ask a question rate of change of premium. So if I know rate of change of premium with respect to rate of change in volatility. So if, let's say, there is a table that tells me if volatility changes. By 1% your premium will increase by 1% then it's easy for me if volatility increased by 20 percentage points, so I can expect $20 increase in premium. So I'm giving an idea how these things play out. Essentially, you're trying to dissect individually how these things impact your premium. That is where we are going to and that is where the options Greeks come in. So Greeks is a collective term for partial derivative of the options price. So you are saying, whenever we say options price, it's called premium. You are you are creating certain mathematical numbers that tells you how would these particular inputs impact your premium for example, let's start with delta.

Speaker 1  2:30:48  
Delta is the partial derivative of options price with respect to underlying What is it telling me is, how would my premium options price change when the underlying change, as simple as it. Don't mind about equation. Now, I'm going to explain how this equation came and all but as of now, just understand Delta tells you. Delta gives you a number. For example, if delta is, let's say delta is point five. Essentially, it tells you if there is $1 increase in underlying price, how many dollars by which my delta increases? If it is point five, that means, if your stock price goes up by $1 your premium goes up by point $5 that's essentially what it tells you. So currently, how are we going to use this? How is this calculated? Is delta same for all kind of options? That's what we are going to talk about. Let me go back to your options pricing equation. See, all the Greeks are derived from this. You take a partial derivative of this equation with respect to different different variables, and you get different clicks, as I was writing down here. If my question is, what happens if, if my price falls to 50 in another way, what is the rate of change of premium with respect to change in stock price? You take a derivative of this equation with respect to stock price itself. So how it works in partial derivative is you need to derive this with respect to capital S. So whatever terms that doesn't have capital S becomes zero. So this becomes zero. And since you're dividing with capital S, taking a derivative nd, one is what you are left with. So this is why you get this particular equation. I'm just telling this for the people who is wondering, why is it the way it is here? Because partial derivative. If you want to take a partial derivative of anything, you just derive the black sculpt model. Take a differentiation, and you get it here for delta, it is just nd one. This is why, when we are discussing earlier, we are saying nd one is hedge ratio, but more discussion on it as we move to other lectures. But at this moment, this is the term that gives you numerical value for your delta for put, of course, it is negative of this negative you just let me show you put equation in this put equation, if you partial derivate premium of put with respect to capital S, you're just left in this equation. In this term, there is no capital, so this becomes zero and it would be minus and minus d1 I know derivation is not the point here, but for who is enthusiastic about this derivation, I'm just telling you guys how this is structured, but let's focus on practical implementation. Now, as I said, delta of a call, you calculate nd one, and you get delta of a call. Of course, I have a Python notebook for you to directly calculate. You don't know, to do it manually. And for put is this, and for, you know, put call parity equation. So if you just substitute in that equation again, you get this value. So if you subtract the delta of a put from call, you get one. So essentially, let me actually show you some examples. So if I'm talking about delta, let me just show you about Delta, Delta. Call minus delta, put so if delta of a call is equal to 0.9 then you can easily, you can substitute in this and then get what would be the put value. Right? It is 0.1 minus delta equal to one. It put it minus 6.1 so what does it tell you? For example, if my delta of call is 0.9 it tells me if there is a $1 increase in underlying my premium of the call option will increase by point nine. What does this tell me? If delta of put is minus 0.1 it tells me, if there is a $1 decrease in my underlying, my premium of a put would decrease by point $1 that's what it says. So essentially,

Speaker 1  2:35:37  
both of you will tell you what happens if the underlying goes up by $1 it would have a negative impact on put it will have positive impact on call, and the value tells you what is the degree of impact. But in a trader terms, people generally speak like this. They say, a 90 Delta call. Now where does this 90 comes in? Because people generally say, if it is one, they say 190 is just point nine. It's easier to say 90 Delta, because if somebody tells me I have a 90 Delta call option, I can individually understand, okay, there is a 90% impact. If my underlying moves up by $1 my call premium, most of the 0.9 dollar that's how this 90% comes in. So essentially a $90 call will have same strike as $10 put. But this again, I'm talking about put call parity. Most important key takeaway here is delta will tell you how your premium change as for underlying change. And when it comes to this, there is a graphical representation, also, just putting it out there. I'm not sure how many people would use graph theory to calculate this, but at a theoretical level, if you have a for example, check this blue line, this will tell you on an expiry. Whenever there is an expiry, what is your payoff of a call option? If I take a call option, this we have already seen if underlying is it $100 This is all my my call option looks like. The payoff of call option looks like, and this red one tells you you can go to any option chain and pick up the premium value. So we, we have seen many options change in these lectures. You just find the premium at different strike prices, if you could plot like this. And there is definitely a tangent you can also plot. So this tangent will tell you what is the slope of this curve? Essentially, that's what your delta is. I'm just showing you how graphical D you can actually represent this. So for people who already know this particular graphical representation, whenever you have a slope, it tells you how fast this is changing. But for all practical purposes. We don't do it on graphs. We can directly calculate by the equation we have already shown and even and just calculate this and you get delta. That is as simple as it but just one moment, how do you interpret this? Right? For example, if I ask you how fast this curve is changing, it is changing faster when it is at the center here, you don't see much change. It's still slowly changing. Here, also you don't see much change, but here you see a drastic change. But as I was saying, it's very difficult to represent this graphically. But one key takeaway is, whenever the price is at underlying spot price, right, whenever you have it at the money, you see major change in this particular premium. So for easy understanding, let me show you different plots. For example, if I am talking about at the money call delta. I'm understanding. How would my call options delta at the money change as my days to expiry changes. So you can actually think, think it without any theory. Also you can think it. Let's say I told you there is a call option that has unlimited time. In the sense it is infinite. It's not going to expect this week or this month, it's going to open, be open forever. In that case, how would my options premium react with respect to change in underlying it changes quite quickly, right? Because there is infinite amount, infinite number of days that are open. So definitely, if my underlying changes quickly, my premium also will change similarly. If there are no time, if there is very limited time, then definitely my underlying change would have only limited impact on my premium. Because if I'm saying my option is going to expire in a week, then definitely its impact is. Going to be limited. I'll show you some more examples. First, let's understand what is nd, one. Nd, one. Whenever we are talking about nd, when we are talking about hedge ratio, right, we are, we are talking about what is the amount of hedging you need to do? Let me go back. Let me go back to the notebook. So I'll give more examples on Delta, because only then we can actually go to other grades, because it's it's going to be easier. Let's say delta is equal to 0.5 call delta.

Speaker 1  2:40:38  
So it's simple. If my underlying moves up by $1 my premium moves up by point $5 but how is it useful to me? Right? More important, more practical implementations are what happens when I am hedging. For example, I have stock position. I have one put position. The same example we have seen earlier. So whenever I am dealing with scenarios like this, I am purely talking about what happens when there is a change in price. Because I was worried that my price is going to fall or price is going to be unstable. That's why I got my put option. So entire position is completely depending on how my price is impacting the premium. So this is the position where I'm going to look at call delta. Just giving you one example, because there are other complex examples also right now, without complete understanding of volatility when, if we discuss delta hedging, etc, it's not going to be right. But one simple example is, whenever you have a combination position with a underlying stock and a put or a call, the relationship dynamics are going to play out right depending on how responsive your call option is with respect to underlying your premium changes. Same thing with put option also. So delta is a hedge ratio, but somewhere people might claim it is probability of finishing in the money and it is nd to all these things. First of all, don't pass on any probabilistic statements using Greeks, because Greeks and all comes with assumption only. They assume that we are dealing with risk neutral world. That means everything goes as theoretical as per the theoretical limitations. But in real life, that that wouldn't happen. Markets are quite erratic, so only way to use this delta is just to understand how to hedge it that we are going to see as we go deep in other lectures, but delta, one of the uses of delta is that, and also there is one discussion. Let me actually give you the discussions example. So people would say this. If I ask you, what are the chances of market going up tomorrow, or forget about tomorrow. Any random day on any let's say on 2027, Jan 30th, assuming it's a trading day, if I ask you, what are the chances of market going up? We'll definitely say 50% right? Because we don't know. Maybe I can also tell you 2045, so people will say 50% because it makes sense, probably strictly it makes sense, because either market could go up or down. I know market can also stay at the place it is, but let's assume there are two chances, either it goes up or down, probably is 50% so people generally claim, shouldn't the call delta be like, Why is call delta greater than 0.5 Shouldn't it be 0.5 because the whole point is the first question. This doesn't tell you any probabilistic values. And second question is going up, I know the chances of going up, see going up, is 50% and again, chances of going down is also 50%

Speaker 1  2:44:15  
even though the probability of going up and down are same, the impact is different. For example, you have stock at 100 100, so both will have different impact. So if a stock is at 100, if it goes up two days, then it goes from 100 to 2.1 right, from here to 1% and again, 1% but if it goes down by one person two times, then definitely the percentage impact, the dollar impact, is not 2.11% from 100 to it goes to 99 then it goes to 98.1 so just because the chances of going up and down are same, the add the money contract, or whatever, Delta. You're talking about, need not be exactly 0.5 so this is where the difference comes in impact of prices. So I'm just telling you different ways the Delta plays in. But more practical thing I know, unless you actually sit and create a trading strategy, you might not get a complete understanding. But as of now, let's try to build some theoretical foundation, because as we move forward in lectures, we can actually talk more ideas using this as foundation. So same thing with gamma, but gamma is an interesting piece of metric. So far we are saying, How will my premium change when the underlying changes. But gamma talks about the change in delta with respect to underlying so. So far I'm talking change in premium when underlying price changes. Now gamma is telling me change in delta when underlying changes. So essentially, delta is also not a constant thing. For example, today I calculated and I got delta as 0.9 so this tells me, okay. Market is very responsive. If there is a 1% one one rupee change in underlying I would see 0.9 rupee change in call option or dollar terms, anything is the same.

Speaker 1  2:46:31  
But maybe next week, I might get delta is 0.5 because delta just tells you how responsive the market is with respect to the change in underlying price. This also will change. So as we move forward, the strategies we create also asks us a question, how fastly your delta is changing? Because today, I calculated everything using delta is 0.9 if tomorrow it becomes 0.1 then what is the point right? Because all my calculations done today will will not hold to tomorrow, all my market conditions, all I consider today might change tomorrow. So if you are planning to use delta, if you have an idea of what gamma could be, means how stable the delta or how dynamic the delta would be, then you would have a holistic idea. So this is where you have another metric called gamma. Again, how did we come up this equation? You just partial derivative of the Black Scholes model. You can get it, but as of now, don't mind it, because you have a Python notebook to do it. You don't need to do it manually. But essentially, Delta tells you how response to the underlying contract. Sorry, gamma tells you how response to the underlying contract is with respect to the change in prices. So how are you going to use it? I know if this is the first time you're actually listening to all these terms, it might confuse you also. So let me try to give you some cases why this is used. Maybe I'll take a simple case, just like every time you take a call option where you bought it at, let's say $1 you have a call option you bought it at $1 so you are planning to buy call options every single day. Actually, there is a famous Reddit trend where that particular person is trying to buy nifty contracts whenever there is a, I guess, whenever there is a 1% fall in an underlying index, whenever there is a 1% role that person is buying call options. That is one case where people actually don't do it. People don't directly do like that, because people have to study Greeks. And this is the question you're going to ask. Whenever there is a drawdown, whenever there is a drop in the index, be it SNP, 500 index, be it hashtag, be it any kind of a major index, you are very strong of the direction you believe the market is going to go up in next 30 days. But you don't want to buy everything today, because it's better to buy anything cheaper, isn't it? So you want to build your positions. So for the next one week, you plan to buy whenever the call option is cheaper, you want to buy it. So how option status thing is, how responsive the current call option is. So if the market is going up and your call option is getting costlier and costlier, you don't want to wait for a week to build your positions ready. You might want to buy it right away, because as you wait, it becomes more costly and costly. Because if the delta is extremely high, if it is actually the underlying is going up and your options premium is also going costlier and costlier. This happens when the delta is extremely high. You don't want to wait. So you see Delta. If delta is high, then you buy today itself. You see delta is very low. The market is not as responsive as it is a. Are even if the prices are going up, your premiums are going up only slightly higher. You might want to buy a bit today, buy more tomorrow. I'm just giving you an example. This is not a trading strategy, but this is one place where you think about delta, then the next question you ask is, okay, my delta is also high, but is my delta increasing? See, yesterday, the delta is 0.7 today, it is 0.8 would it become 0.9 tomorrow? All these questions you would get to get a proper decision. In that case, you would see gamma, how quickly my gamma is going up? You don't always need to calculate gamma. Also, because, see, I'm right now. We are thinking theoretically. But there are few, few rules or few common behaviors all these Greeks shows. So that's where, let me show you a three dimensional plot this. But I'm going to dissect this into 2d plots also. But this is one of the common ways people visualize it. What it tells you is, if I have a call, call option, or have an option with different strike prices. See, we have different options, right a different strike price, you have another option, and this is gamma. So if I with my strategy, tells me pick a contract that has highest gamma, maybe I want to deploy a strategy where my delta is changing very rapidly. That means my gamma is extremely high.

Speaker 1  2:51:29  
The theory says, and also the pattern says, pick a stock price at the money, because at the money has the highest gamma. So let me dissect this. So I'm just imagine you're looking from this angle. We are just showing it as a two day plot. So if you actually observe the contracts that are at the money has highest gamma, what does it mean? It means the contract that are very close to the spot price, those have highest level of gamma, that means their delta is going to be very volatile. It's going to be very dynamic, and markets reaction also is going to be in line with that. But if you have an options position which is way in the money or out of the money, you don't need to expect any change in particular delta. That means is gamma. As you could see in this plot, it's gamma is extremely low. But for a price that is near the spot or at the money, the gamma is high. So this is where the decision comes in. As I was saying, we have more and more trading examples where you take this decision in next classes, where the question would be right now, I want to take a position where my delta shouldn't be erratic. My Delta shouldn't be very dynamic. I need a stable Delta contract in such case, this plot tells me, then, don't go with the money. Go with the contracts that are way in the money or out of the money. This is how you solve problems when it comes to risk management, for example. Let me show you one more plot. Essentially. This is again, I decided, Okay, I'm going to take out of the money, right? Because I want less Delta. Next. My question is, what contract do you need to trade? Do you need to trade weekly contract? Do you need to trade monthly contract or yearly contract, because it's not about what strike you pick, or it's not about in the money, out of the money, right? It's also about what expiry do I trade a weekly contract or a monthly contract. Again, I come back and think, Okay, what contract will have? The lower gamma? This tells me the lowest the time to expiry is the lowest the gamma. So with this, I can actually take a decision. With my first plot, I can take a decision. I'll take out of the money contract. And my second plot, I'll take a decision. I take the recent expiry contract. This is how you take decisions, using creeps. And so with the same example, let's say I want to let me go back. Let's say now the scenario is I want to participate in a position which has highest gamma. That means you want your delta to be extremely volatile. In such case, what will you do? Maybe at that time I would want to take at the money contracts. Now the next common question is, okay, I would want to take at the money contract. But now, what is expiry? Is it a short term expiry or a long term expiry? That's where this plot is going to be helpful to you. This plot shows

Speaker 1  2:54:40  
the near term expiry contracts has highest gamma if they are at the money, if they are at the money, it has the highest gamma. And the gamma decreases as the days increases. So if I dealing with at the money contract, and I want gamma to be extremely high, I go with contracts that. Or maybe weekly expiry or monthly expiry. See, this is how Greeks are going to help you. And at least now you get a bit of an idea of how to think. But I'm sure maybe you might not get complete intuition. But again, we'll see more examples, and you get more idea of it. So same in the same way you have theta also. So, for example, see, this looks like a scary equation again, but you get it by doing partial derivative of, again, the same black source model. But again, you don't need to do it. You have Python to do it. We have notebook to do it. But what it tells you is, if you have 30 days for expiry. Every single day there is a decay and options contract. If you today, whatever the contract theta is, as you move forward or you move nearer to expiry, the most of the contracts become worthless. So how do you study the impact of time? You study the impact of time with respect to theta? So this is the pattern of data. So wherever there is a term data, people use it along with decay, but we just use theta as a trader term, what data actually indicates decay. So what this actually tells you is, this is, again, a three dimensional plot of stock price, time and data, if you have an at the money contract, it has the highest data. That means the at the money contract is going to decay much faster than out of the money or in the money. So if you are holding a long position of an at the money call option, its premium is going to decay much faster than any other positions. Let's dissect this again. Just one moment. Let's just check it here itself. You see this particular pattern. This curve represents stock price versus data. So here it tells me if I go to the extreme left. If I have a in the money call option, its theta value is less compared to at the money. So if I am holding an options position, a call then, if I don't want extreme decay, then I might go with in the money or out of the money. But you might be wondering, why would you buy an acre call option, generally, in the money or out of the money. I'm talking about combinations. It might not, may completely make sense to think about data and take a decision of maker call option. But when you're going for triangles, when you're going for volatility trading, you create, you combine calls and puts. That's what the next classes are about. How do you combine to create strategies in that you would be pushed to actually have some premium within your hand. So in that case, you would position yourself in probably in these levels or these levels, but not in the levels where the theta is extremely high. Same way, if you see from the right side, you see a pattern with respect to time and then theta. This actually tells you the contracts that are expiring very soon has the lowest theta. But then it depends on whether you are in the money or out of the money. So let me give you more examples on this. When we are dealing with hedging, we are definitely going to see more examples on theta, but these three dimensional plots can help you just to get a basic intuition, if I am dealing with in the money, how are my data is going to be impacted? All these questions will be answered, and again, there are more discussion on put call parity. You can also study what are the impacts of put call parity if you put it a put any Greek input call parity equation, you're it's going to give you some RHS that, again, gives you more information of how these dynamics play sort for example, when we are dealing with Delta because of put call parity equation, if I calculate, if I have call value delta, I can easily calculate put value. I don't need to again, put in some equation to get this value. Similarly, you can use put call parity values to actually easily calculate the other one, either put or a call. But whenever we are talking about volatility trading, the most impactful data here is Vega. So Vega will tell you how is your underlying impacting with respect to volatility, in the sense, if you have a call option with, let's say, x beta,

Speaker 1  2:59:32  
a premium of X, then it's going to tell you if there is a 1% increase in volatility and how is it going to impact the premium? Because we need to understand how your premium of position changes as the volatility change. Because when somebody, when other student was asking, volatility spreads during during major events like Union budget. It's a very good strategy to deploy volatility spread, but you should also understand at different volatility levels how my premium of the spread is changing. Then only you can understand how much money you can make and how much risk you can take. So again, we have an equation for Vega. It's just, again, a partial derivative of Black Scholes to get the Vega. But essentially, it's going to tell you, at different levels of stock price and different levels of experience, how my how my premium is changing with respect to Vega. So essentially, again, if you're dealing with at the money contracts, and those are the contracts that are most influenced by Vega. So let's dissect this. If you're talking about how the Vega is changing with respect to price for all at the money contracts, the Vega is going to be high. What does it mean? It means a 1% change in under in volatility will have more impact on premium compared to the contracts that are in the money or out of the money. But in the same case, again, the another dimension we need to take is, what contract do we need to deal with, like a weekly or monthly, etc. In such case, you can understand this pattern where if there is more time to expiry, then your Vega is going to be high for that contract. I'll tell you why this pattern actually emerges. If I have a contract that is expiring within a week, then its responsiveness with volatility will be less compared to other contracts, because there is not much time for you. There is not much time for it to actually have a major impact on the premium. But if there is more time, then definitely it would have comparatively more impact the volatility will have more impact on the time, on the expiry of the contract, like if you have a one year expiry contract, then that will be more responsive to volatility changes than a short contract, like a week. So these are important Greeks. There are other Greeks. We are going to see other Greeks also. But one thing I want to tell you, when we talk about Delta Gamma Vega, see it's we study these things separately, but the important decision comes when you understand how all these things will impact the premium together, right? Because, as of now, we are studying them separately, because only when you understand them separately, you can actually combine them to know the overall impact in the next classes. But there is also a Greek, which is row this is generally called as a minor Greek, because how frequently the interest rate changes will be there? We're very seldom we have interest rate changes, right? So this will tell you, if there is a 1% change in interest rate, how would my premium change? Because there are people who rolls over their positions, they open their options positions now and keep them open for months and months by more to new contracts and the higher expiry, like longer term contracts, also like an year contract and five year, 10 year contracts, also in some exchanges. So people would like to understand, if there is a change in interest rate, how would my premium change? So for that, your Greek row would help. But again, as I said, there are many Greeks. You can also come up with your own Greek. And I know people who comes up with their own partial derivative equations to understand this, that's what quants do. But essentially, there is one common Greek, which is

Speaker 1  3:03:33  
there is a derivative of Vega with respect to time. Means, how is my Vega changing as I'm nearing to expiry. But you might be wondering, why do we have these many different different derivatives, or these many different different Greeks? Because it depends on your trading strategy. I'm sure as you move forward, as you more and more trade alpha, or create alpha through options, you would get an intuition. For example, there were many traders that might feel, I want to take a long, but today I don't feel like taking a long in the market. Market is too volatile. I will take a position tomorrow. But if you ask them to quantify it, then they would think about their rate of change of Vega with respect to time. That means, how is my Vega changing as I am nearing to expiry? Because you must have heard people not taking positions near to expiry, because they are, they are very scared about extreme changes in underlying price. So depending on what strategy you're using and what decision you want to take, you can measure anything. If you want to measure impact of interest rate, impact of volatility, on volatility. Also you can, you can do it. So the ones we discussed, Delta, Gamma, Vega or theta. These four are the standard ones which are major driving factors of premium anyway. On top of it, if you have a special case, definitely you can derive that also, for example, there is. Something called Varna, which is derivative of delta with respect to volatility. But what does it mean? It tells you if there is a change in volatility. Vega tells me how my premium is changing. But how is my delta changing? See, this is an interesting question you can ask, right? Because I told you sometimes the delta would be high, sometimes would be low, what are the times when delta would be high? Like how response to my delta is as volatility changes? Yeah, you can ask any kind of interesting question and come up with your second degree Greeks. There are no standard nomenclature for it. It depends on what you want to measure. But coming back to the practical applications, how are people using this ideally? In fact, the positive thing about these Greeks is all are depending on black souls model and all are linear. For example, if you have two call options, if you know Greek, if you have two call options in your portfolio, if you know delta of these two different call options. You can take a sum and you get a call option of your entire portfolio. You can also do that. We don't need to just stick to individual calculation of individual call option. If you want to comment on how your options portfolio is doing. Also, you can actually take a summation and you get a linear summation of this complete values. So at a practical level, you might read these. You might hear this in YouTube. There are many YouTube channels which actually talks about options trading, which will, every day, give a commentary on options trading also, and they might use thumbs like this, like they may say, long 5000 Delta. Essentially, what they're saying is they have a long option in the market, and whenever the underlying moves up by $1 they make $5,000 it's as simple as it some might say long, 100, gamma. Again, the same thing they are saying, if, if, whenever there is a change in underlying. So they would gamma tells you there is a change in delta, right? So what they are saying is, 100 is what the change in delta would be. So when they say 5000 gamma, since it is talking about change in premium with respect to underlying 5000 is the change you see in premium, since gamma talks about change in delta, 100 is the change you see in Delta. See, this is just a trader jargon in technical terms, we might talk what is exactly, is delta, and then you multiply with your positions. And all but people tend to, straight away, speak like this way when they say, short, 500 data, that means every day they're losing $500 on their position because, because of theta, there is a decay every day. So every day they're losing 500 data. And same thing. Long 1000 Vega. It just means that if there is an increase in volatility by 1% you're going to make $1,000 See, in practice, you might expect an increase in volatility. Maybe you might expect, let's say, 2% increase in volatility. Then if you know Vega value, you can easily calculate how much your premium would change, like, what? What happens to your premium? And there is a change in volatility accordingly, you can take a decision. But as I said, today's whole objective is to just familiarize you with these terms and also a bit of an idea of what a Greek is and then what it does. But I'm sure right now you might not directly go and use this. That's not expectation also. And the next three lectures, we are going to use this a lot. We're going to use it in our Python coder. We want to use it in trading examples also, and then do some mathematics out of it and get trading decisions too.

Speaker 1  3:08:36  
But if you could, if you are already trading, let's say trading equities, maybe you might want to see your trading station like, let's see what are all the values you're getting for options. For example, right now, we just saw a few Option Chains, right? So you can also open few things. And maybe in the next class, you guys can ask me questions if you feel like there is some data point you didn't understand. Because I, I would actually advise you to get familiarized with all these terms. See, you see implied volatility here. But next class, 80% of it is on IV. When we are talking about volatility, next class, entirely is on IV, and depending on how IB changes, we're going to discuss trading strategies. Now, what is open interest? Maybe you guys can research if you if you still want to understand, you can tell me in the next class. Only thing I'm saying is, as of now today, whatever we discussed, those are just to give you idea of what these things are. But I'm sure at a practical level, you might not be able to put it into practice, but for you to to put it into practice, just try to familiarize with these terms. For example, this is one screenshot of a trading station where they have Vega, implied volatility, Delta already grief given in, right? So try to familiarize yourself with these things, and when we. Meet in the next class, we are going to actually discuss more on these things and put these things in practice. So that's pretty much it. If you have any doubts, just put it in chat. Let me actually attend these queries and see any ideas. If you if you have any interesting ideas on strategies. Also, you can definitely put it in. Let's see. Carlos asks delta is first partial derivative of underlying. Gamma is second partial derivative of underlying Yeah, that is right. You can actually say that delta tells you what happens if the underlying price change. How would the premium change? And gamma is telling you the change in delta with respect to premium. So you're right. Then Arvind Kumar asks, discontent is what exactly? Okay, this is already answered. Anusha asks, IV keeps changing. You're right. I'm sure IV keeps changing. And the ones you see on any platform, I think it's a good question you asked, because whenever I see on my exchange platform, for example, I'm trading in Indian market, so I see in NSE, sometimes we discuss on US market. So we see in their exchanges related to SMB funded in that some platforms, it might not be dynamic. They might show only last traded price IV, or last days close price related IV. But IV keeps changing. It changes because, as a premium changes, IV changes in fact in the next class, we are going to discuss how to calculate IV, also using Black Scholes and how premium change in premium impacts your IV to see, there is a question By Shreyas, how to calculate and execute gamma hedging. This is, this is actually OTS five in which we are going to do hedging. So it's actually a very big question, which takes an hour or two to discuss, but we are going to discuss, we are going to start with delta hedging, and then we are going to move forward with different things and share says, given the time constraint, or you feel quite theoretical for a swing strategy, which of the Greece create the biggest silent risk group that I should monitor? Actually? Yes, this is actually intended to be theoretical, because more practical things comes in next lectures. Because first we need to understand the theory, the definition, and then we definitely will put it into practice. It's not like this is the last time we are no this is actually beginning. We are beginning of discussion on Greeks in all the next lectures, we are going to discuss on these only like these are the central points. But today it is actually supposed to be theoretical and then driven by definitions, etc. But for your question for swing strategy, which of the Greeks creates bigger Saeed risk? Should I monitor? Definitely theta. You need to know. But theta you monitor not to avoid that risk, but to actually measure that risk, and definitely delta and gamma, and because under if you're talking about swing trading, it's about the underlying price moment. So how is it getting impacted? So these are the major Greeks. There was another question by Vishnu vishwaroopan, where can you get IV data from? IV data? In the next class, we're going to discuss how to calculate. But if you want to extract. You can definitely go to

Speaker 1  3:13:23  
go to platforms, any I don't know what, I don't know what market you trade in, but if you're trading in India, definitely there are data providers that gives you IV for example, you can go to NSE, and then you can get IV values here itself. You don't need to subscribe to any data provider, also on IV is pretty basic data any option data provider or option platforms will give you. And yeah. JC, and also suggest bar chart.com Yes, it is right. So you can also have American and European option related contracts, yeah. Thanks. JC, thanks a lot. So yeah, there are different data providers we're going to explore. There are certainly many free data providers. And if you have premium data, you can also calculate by yourself. So in the next class, we are going to discuss that. We are going to have a Pythonic notebook that actually calculates IV for you. So I don't see any other unanswered questions. Yes, today's class is supposed to be a bit theoretical, because, yeah, this is a foundation for next classes. So that's why this is structured this way. But I promise you, as we move forward, we have more and more practical approaches to this, not just the theory, but I believe today's class is a good, solid way to start thinking about options differently, because till previous class, I'm not sure if you guys are thinking about Greeks, but now the Greeks is the only way to think about options before we take any decision. So hope this is useful, and thanks for your time, and we'll meet you in the next class. We. With the discussion on how to measure volatility, how to structure a volatility trade, and also, in fact, how to forecast volatility the most important thing. So thanks for your time and see you in the next class. You.

