Speaker 1  0:09  
Hello everyone. Welcome to this class on machine learning for trading part three. This is Jay here, and I will be the lecturer for today's class. Before we begin. Can some of you guys please confirm if I'm loud and clear?

Speaker 1  0:32  
Perfect. Thanks, guys. So in today's class, we are going to touch upon the deep learning part. So this class is going to be a bit easier compared to the first two installments. We will begin our discussion by with clustering algorithm, which is the unsupervised algorithm. Okay, so today's the focus of today's class would be on the unsupervised learning and the deep learning part. So we are going to cover two various, two different topics altogether. We'll begin our discussion with the unsupervised learning which is used, or, I would say, which consist of clustering, okay, as we, as we, as we learned in the very first class that unsupervised learning consists of clustering, and there are other sets of algorithms which are used to an extent, but not that extensively, okay? And then we will move, once we complete clustering, we will move our discussion towards deep learning part now important note here for this lecture, I expect some procession to pass, pass by from where I'm taking the lecture. So there are chances that you guys might hear some disturbances, in case if the disturbance goes beyond control. We might have to take a small break in between the class. Okay, so do let me know if you guys hear any unwanted or the disturbances from background during the class, and if you guys feel that we should stop for a bit, we shall stop, and then we will continue. Okay, this is unexpected. I'm extremely sorry for that, but I'm not sure, like, for how long and at what time the procession will begin and it will pass, like, from the place where I'm currently sitting at. So I am extremely sorry, like in advance. But again, it might happen. There are chances. I am not saying that it will happen. It might happen. Okay, sure, thanks. So let's begin our discussion today with unsupervised learning or the clustering algorithm. So as we learnt in the very first class, that we use machine learning for primarily two purposes, okay, so the first purpose is, yeah, so the first purpose, or the first major application of machine learning in Trading, is forecasting, and we learned the classification algorithm. And to an extent, you guys also have idea about the regression task, which are used for forecasting directions or classifications or numerical value or whatnot. And the second application is in analytical part, okay, or the analytics. But now, when I say analytics, it focuses on when we are analyzing some data to train our models or to extract insights from them. We use machine learning to help us extract those insights. Okay? Now in analytics, usually we use machine learning in two aspects. First, now when we don't have any idea and when we want to group things together without having the inherent without having the idea of the inherent properties of the data, then we use clustering part. We'll come to this part in a moment. And then there is another aspect of analytics, or the unsupervised machine learning, which is used in analytics, quite like sometimes, not that frequency, which is the dimensionality reduction. Okay, so again, you guys are you guys will focus on this part in the sixth or the seventh lecture of machine learning, and you will also touch upon this clustering part in one of the lectures going forward. Okay, of course, today we are going to cover the basics. The. The foundation, but it would be covered in the upcoming part. So when I say dimensionality reduction, what I'm what I usually mean is say, I have a data I have a data set of 1000 rows, and say, for example,

Speaker 1  5:19  
10,000 columns. Okay. Now this is okay. This kind of data set is usually bit mid size data set to work with, but at the but is the number of columns increase, okay, the compute power that is required for any algorithm to process such high dimension, high dimensional data increases significantly. Okay, now what if, say, instead of 1000 records, we have 1 million records, and the number of columns are the same. Such a, such a data set is really, really computing, a compute intensive to process with. Okay. So dimensionality, dimensionality reduction is a set of algorithms which help us reducing, which help us reduce the dimensions of the data set without losing much information. Okay, without losing much information. So in other words, the data set that we have over here, which contains 1000 records, could be reduced to say, 1000 records and only five columns, okay, without reducing the information content that we have in the original data set, right? So this is the data set where we have information containing those 10,000 columns. Now with this kind of algorithms, dimensionality reductions algorithms, we could go ahead and we could compact that much information in just five columns. So these kind of data sets are these kind of algorithms are important. And it finds it finds applications. When people have to deal with really large data sets, okay, and if they want to train machine learning models with really, really huge data sets, then they use first dimensionality reduction algorithms, and then they go ahead, and then they train their models. Okay, so again, we are not going to touch on the dimensionality reduction algorithms in this class, but again, one of the classes going forward will touch upon this part. Okay, today we are going to focus on the clustering part. Now, what does clustering do is we have learned in the very first class clustering help us group similar instances together. And one of the very prominent algorithms that we use to perform clustering is known as K, means clustering algorithm. Okay, so please pay attention here for the next 10 minutes when we while we discuss, like, how it works, and then we will move on to the Python application of it. Okay, so consider we have a data and we have a data set, and this data set consists of multiple features. Out of those features, I have taken two features here, volatility and returns on y axis and x axis respectively. The data that we see as humans is so the kind of data set that we see, the scatter plot that we see over here clearly shows three clusters together, all together, right? But for machines, it is not the case. Machines can't visualize data machine cannot. For machine, these data set is some abstract data set without any pattern recognition or such. Okay, so, but again, to exam, to make this example concrete, I have chosen a data set with three distinct clusters. However, for machine, that is not the case. So what we have here is a data set out of which we have selected two features, volatility and returns on y axis and x axis respectively. And we will ask the k means clustering algorithm. The name of the clustering is the name of the algorithm is k means clustering algorithm. We will ask this algorithm to take this data, to take this data and group all these observations. When it's observations, I'm referring to this black dots that you see on the screen.

Speaker 1  9:50  
Take this data and organize this data into three clusters. Okay, so all I'm saying is, I will take this data. I. I will feed this data to algorithm, and I will ask the algorithm to segregate this data set into three separate groups, or three separate clusters. So in order to come up with three clusters, what does what does this algorithm will do is this algorithm will start with three random initial points, okay to come up with three clusters. K means clustering algorithm will come up with initial three random points, which indicates three clusters. So over here, it came up with these three triangles, the orange one, the red one and the blue one. Now, once it comes with this initial points, it will start calculating distances of individual records with each of these initial three points, it will start calculating distances of each of the observations that is this, black dots with each of these initial three points, like this, okay, once it calculates the Distance of with which each of these initial points, the current associated observation will be assigned to the cluster with the minimal distance. I repeat once the distance is With each of the initial points is calculated the current observation will be assigned to the cluster denoted by the initial points in this case, in this case, the observation will be assigned to The blue cluster. Okay, likewise, another, the distance between another observation and initial three distance initial three points will be calculated again, and the next observation will be assigned to whatever cluster that it has minimum distance with. Okay, in this case, it is going to be the red one, and likewise, the distances from each of the observations will be calculated with each of these initial three points, and all these observations will be assigned to one of the clusters in a similar way. Okay, so this time it will be assigned to the orange cluster. Okay, so this algorithm starts by taking input from us. That is the modeler. That is how many assets, how many clusters do we want to create? So let's say we, say we want to create three clusters. It will start with it will start by creating those three initial pointers, and then it will assign each of the observations by calculating the distances of each of the observations with those three initial points, and assign those each of the observations to one of the clusters like this. Okay, now, once all the observations have been assigned to some cluster. What happens next is this? So over here, we have these three clusters, and we have these three initial points as well with us. Okay, now this algorithm calculates the center of each of these cluster. I repeat this algorithm calculates the center of each of these, each of these clusters, which is like somewhere over here. Okay, for this cluster, the orange cluster, it would be somewhere over here. Likewise. So this again, how do we calculate the center of the cluster by calculating the average value of all these observations belonging to the same cluster, okay, that is the by calculating the mean value, right? So once the center of each of these clusters are calculated, each of these initial points, each of these initial points will be moved to that center value or the or the mean value, right? So like this. Okay. Now this completes the first iteration. I repeat this part completes the first iteration. It started by

Speaker 1  14:41  
coming up with three initial values, then assigning each observation to one of those clusters, and then all observation once all observations are assigned, it will start by calculating the mean value and the initial points that initially was rendered like initially. There is some somewhere, randomly will transfer, will change its position, and will go to the center of the cluster, which is also known as the mean of the cluster. Okay, and that completes the first iteration. Once this iteration is completed, the whole process is repeated again, like this. Okay, again, the distances of the distances between each of the observation which new center of the clusters will be calculated, and if this time, any of the observation has shorter distance with any of other midpoints or the centroids as they are known, okay, that observation will be assigned to that new cluster. So in this case, the current selected observation will not change its cluster because it still has the minimal distance between with the blue centroid only. Okay. Likewise, again over here, this observation will even not change the cluster, because it still has the minimal distance with the centroid of the red cluster, right? So this process will keep on continue. This process will keep on continue, and at the end of the second iteration, again, the mean of the each clusters will be calculated. And if need be, if need be, these centroid denoted by this triangle, will change its position, and the process continues. Okay, this process will continue until there comes a point. Until there comes a point when the centroids don't change their position. I repeat. The process will keep on continue of calculating distances and assigning observations to the new cluster, and then the centroids changing their positions will continue until centroids don't change their position. And after few iterations, eight, 810, 20 iterations, there will come a point that the centroids will keep where they will stay where they are. And at that point in time, the clustering algorithm will exit. Okay, the clustering algorithm will exit. So this is how the clustering algorithm clusters data right now, the kind of data that we saw here, we already had, like, really good three clusters in place with us. But what if? But what if we have a data set where the clusters are not clearly visible? What if that we have a data set where the clusters are not clearly visible? So let's go ahead and let's simulate how this algorithm works. Okay, so pay attention over here. Let me generate new data set. So yeah, this is yeah. This should be good. Let me generate some new data set over here.

Unknown Speaker  18:16  
No, this is not something.

Speaker 1  18:24  
So most of the data, data set that it generates already has clusters. And, yeah, oh, that was quite good. But again, I just yeah, let's begin with this one, and then we'll go ahead and we'll see example for on another cluster on another data set as well. So over here I have this simulator wherein I have this randomly generated data set I need to provide. How many number of clusters do I want to create? So I am keeping three as the number of clusters over here. And what you guys need to focus on is in this center pane, wherein, once I click on this particular button, it will come up with this, those initial three points, and then it will show how those centroids will change, and will calculate the distances and how each of these data set, how, how Each of these data points that we see over here are assigned to one of Those three clusters. Okay, so let me start over here.

Speaker 1  19:47  
Yeah, so it appears that the clustering is completed, and if we scroll down, we see that it took nine iterations. Okay, the algorithm took nine iterations. To form these three clusters. And as you guys, as like you guys might have noticed, like those, these initial three centroids were created somewhere all together in a separate area, right? And then they changed its direction. Okay, if you guys haven't paid attention. I'm let me.

Unknown Speaker  20:37  
Let me run, start this algorithm again, and I'm going to see.

Speaker 1  20:54  
Let's check with this new run, where the initial three points where initialize all together at a different point from the first run. How many iterations did it take? This time, it took only four iterations. So it is also important that how many iterations will be taken by the algorithm also depends on how those initial three point pointers are initialized, okay, but usually that we don't. We don't have to worry much about it, because, again, algorithm will take care of it on its own. Okay, let me take some questions, and then I will go ahead and I will Yes, Max. So the dimensionality reduction algorithm that I was referring to is PCA. There are, there are a few others as well, but we would be covering the PCF. That's true. Could you explain K means algorithm with real time? Example? Yeah, we are going to eventually go is with any other activity that we did, first we will consider, we will cover the basic concepts, and then we will move on to the real time examples. Right? We always do with all examples. How will it take three initial points from three different clusters, Anusha? It will be, it will be initialized randomly. Okay, although we could go ahead and we could specify the distribution from which those three initial pointers should come from. However, if we don't, it will be initialized from the random distribution that the initial three pointers will be random, and then we can go ahead and it will converge on its own. Clustering is not mentioned in the lecture notes of one and two. It would be mentioned in the lecture notes of two. We will how will we know the accurate number of clusters to select a Vira, we will come to that part in the moment.

Speaker 1  23:09  
So someone says, I am not able to understand clustering. So are there any other so? So if you're not able to understand, please mention what you are not able to understand so that I can know what to explain this feature select performance in this algorithm, not to an extent. Okay, so we'll see two examples, and we'll see the feature selection won't impact, but the values in the features would show the impact. Is it perfect? Is

Speaker 1  23:50  
iterations by changing the number of clusters, ideally, we should not worry about the number of iterations, okay, because the number of iterations doesn't really matter. And with this kind of algorithms, what I have experienced this no matter how big your data is, convergence usually happens faster. Convergence usually happens faster.

Speaker 1  24:15  
Yes, Vira, I will come to that part. Okay. Someone is saying audio is lagging. Guys, is this for everyone?

Unknown Speaker  24:38  
Okay?

Speaker 1  24:46  
Okay, okay, so do let me know if it is the case again, I'll change my internet connection. I Okay. I'm not sure what has happened from my end, but again, if it, if it depends, again, do let me know I'll change my internet connection. Okay, great. So any questions, anyone with regard to whatever we have discussed again, if not, we can move towards the Python part and we'll we can see the examples there.

Speaker 1  25:39  
Okay, great. So if this is clear, let's go and let's move to the Python part now.

Speaker 1  25:55  
Okay, over here. So as we study, as we discussed in the first part, when we work with clustering algorithm or any unsupervised algorithm, we usually don't have the target vector, okay, we usually don't have the target value. We only have the features. So here I have a data set that has two features, okay, returns and volatility. Now this data set consists of two features, returns and volatility. What I want to do is I want to using this particular data set or using these two features, I want to go ahead and I want to segregate or I want to cluster companies into three different clusters, right? Or I want to segregate companies based on these two features into multiple clusters. At this point in time, I don't know how many clusters, but let's say I want to cluster them into

Speaker 1  27:14  
Okay, so people are saying my voice is lagging again. Just give me two minutes, guys, let me change my internet connection. Just give me two minutes. You You shall not hear my voice for the next two minutes. Just give me two minutes.

Speaker 1  29:27  
Okay, I am back. I have changed my internet connection. Or do let me know in case, if you guys still face the issue, I hope it should be clear. Okay, great, okay, coming back to what we were discussing. So I have this data set over here with me with two features. Now. These two features are returns in volatility. 450, different companies. What I want to do is, I want to use these two features to segregate or create group of create clusters of companies. Usually what we do is, when we want to cluster stocks, we usually take the sector information or the industry information, or the market cap, or the factors, information and whatnot, and then we create portfolios of those companies, right? But that is something that everyone does. I don't want to create sectors, or I don't want to create group of companies based on those, I'd say the legacy features, I want to use quantitative data to segregate or to create Group of Companies so and I want to do using returns and volatility. So this is the data set that I have and now see as we, as we, as we discussed, when we create or when we use clustering algorithms, we need to tell the machine, how many clusters do we want? Okay, so over here, we will need to tell the machine that, okay, we do want these many clusters. But how do we come to know? We'll discuss that part like, how do, how do we come to know how many companies or how many clusters do we need? Okay, so we will. We will start our example by importing these necessary Python packages. Okay, so instead of using those 50 companies, I am here going to use the nifty 500 that is like, I am going to use the data set of 500 companies. Okay, so these are those 500 instruments, 500 companies. Now those who don't know what is nifty, nifty. Nifty is a broad based index in the Indian some subcontinent, and there are, like, around 2000 instruments or 2000 companies listed on on the exchange where nifty gets traded. Out of those 2000 these are the nifty 500 stocks that is the these are the constituents of the nifty 500 index. Okay, I'm going to download data for the past one year for all these 500 companies, and then I'm going to calculate the volatility observed in all these 500 companies, along with the returns posted by these 500 companies in the last one year. Okay, so I'm going to use yahoo finance data, Yahoo Finance library, to download the data.

Speaker 1  32:56  
Although it says 500 I see there are 502 instruments. It will take like, 30 to 40 seconds for to download one year. So one year, one year worth of data for all these 500 instruments. Once it downloads the data over here, what we are going to do is we are going to discard any of the companies where we don't have any data, okay? So we see that there are, like, 23 failed downloads. And there are these two instruments which got delisted or not available, which here of finance. So I'm not going to spend time over here referring like, why, why it failed, but what, what appears to me is like, these are the old ticker names which have got changed or delisted or got demergered. So I'm not going to re download again, but I'm just going to drop them from my data set, and then I'm going to check the shape of the data set. And I see that currently in my data set, I have 416 columns, which means I have, in total, 400 and data set of 416 companies for the entire past one year. Okay, so it could have happened like there would be some data set, there would be some instruments for which there was data for less than one year. I have also discarded that when we I say drop Na, x is one, okay, so I have removed the data of all the stocks where the data is not available for entire one year. So this becomes, this is my data set. Let me go ahead and let me create those two features. So to create those two features, I am going to use the percentage change operation, and then I will add one to it, because if you want to do any operation with percentage, we need to add one. And then I'm going to take the product of old. Those past one year data. And then I'm going to subtract minus one to come up with, to come up with net returns. And then I'm going to use the percentage change method again, on which I'm going to apply the standard deviation, which will give me the standard daily standard deviation. And then I'm going to multiply with the square root of 252 to come up with the annualized standard deviation, also known as the volatility. So these are the this is how the features are computed, and this is how it is right. So I have returns in volatility for all those 416 companies. Now, again, I'm just showing you the initial 30, okay, the top 30 rows. Now, let me go ahead and let me see. Let me check what are the statistics? So we see that the statistics are quite different. The standard deviation. Over here is point 34 over here it's 0.0 so there are differences in returns, in volatility, although they both share the same metric or the same unit returns, okay, or the percentage. Let me plot the scatter plot of these two features and see how they have, how they are. So we see over here, these are, again, there is no there is no device like, there is no clear pattern as such in the data. Okay, so now these are, these are, this is the same, like, very similar scatter plot of what we saw in the diagram over here, right? So over here we had volatility versus returns, which is what we have over here, volatility versus returns. In this two example, we had the data set where we had three clusters, which was very visible to us in the real data set. That is not the case, and this is how the real data sets usually are okay. So what we are going to do now is we are going to take this data and apply the K means algorithm over here and see what could be done. Now, before we could do this, before we could do this is this algorithm uses distances, and when I say distances, it it uses either Euclidean distance or Manhattan distance

Speaker 1  37:43  
to calculate the distance between two pointers and the two points. Now it could be the observation in the centroid or anything, right? So we are going to simply keep the default setting, which is to use the Euclidean distance to compute the distance between two observations. Okay. Now to work with Euclidean distance, we need to have data in the similar scale or on in on in the similar range. If don't you consider in distance will have will be biased towards the feature which are higher in numbers. Okay, so we will have to scale our features so that Euclidean distance don't get skewed, right. And to do that, we already know how to scale our features. We are going to use our old friend over here, standard scalar. And once we import standard scalar from the SQL pre processing module, we are going to go ahead and define the object of the standard scalar, and then we are going to see over here we are not doing anything, train, test, split, or those kind of stuff, right? Because that that needs to that needs to be done only when we have when we want to test the algorithm. Okay, over here, there is no concept of testing the algorithm. Once we train the model, okay, we are going to accept that whatever model has came up with, whatever cluster, whatever clusters that the model has came up with are going to be the ones that we are going to use. Okay? So over here, there is only fit transform. There is no training or test. There is no training or testing as such. It's just fit transform. Okay, so I'm going to scale the whole data set at a time, and once they are scaled, I'm going to see the summary statistic, and I say that the mean is now zero and the standard deviation is one, which is we want. Now let's go ahead and let's build the model. Now that we have the model ready with us, we are going to perform clustering to perform. Clustering, we are going to import the K means algorithm from the SK run dot cluster sub module. Okay. And when we build the model, when we define the model, we need to specify the number of clusters. Over here we are specifying the number of clusters to be three. Okay, random state equals to one. You guys know the purpose of random state. We have been providing it in all the algorithms that we have been creating, like by until now. Once the K means algorithm is defined, the the object is defined, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to fit the data, okay? That is, I'm going to train the model. Once I train the model, once I train the model, I can go ahead and I can access the labels that the model has came up with, or the clusters, okay, the clusters that the model is came up with for each of those observations. Okay, and see, over here, we see 01, and two, which means this, which means the first company is assigned to cluster zero, the second company was assigned to cluster number one, and then the and likewise, the second, the third company, the fourth company, the fifth company, and the sixth company was assigned to cluster number two. So these are, this is how it performed that clustering under the hood, and then it only came up with those clustering numbers. Right now, what are these numbers? 012, they are nothing. But these, these centroids, okay, they just represent the number the clusters that we see over here. So those numbers are the, basically the number of the cluster that a particular company is assigned to. Okay, so let me go here, and let me assign it to the data frame that we already have, and then we can go ahead and we can see so over here, this is how we see this particular company is similar to this particular record. And likewise. Okay. Now, usually when we perform clustering, it is a bit difficult to

Speaker 1  42:26  
comprehend by looking at the data frame, so our resort would be to use the charts, okay, and see how it clustered those companies. Okay? So over here, we have these scatter plot of volatility versus returns, and we see these are like 416 companies with over here, let me plot the same chart again, but this time I am going to change the color of those dots based on the cluster, okay, and this is what it is. So it came up with these three clusters, and it is telling us that, you know, like, based on whatever features that you have provided, these are the three companies, or these are the three clusters that I have been able to come up with. And those clusters are like, they have these boundaries like this. Okay, probably like this. And, yeah, so now see, this is what the this is what the clustering algorithm did. Now, how do we perceive it? Okay, is up to the modeler. Now, how do we do with this data? Is up to the modeler that okay, what could be done with this segregated or the clustered companies? So it could happen that if I know that I have a portfolio of stocks, which is like, again, I have this portfolio of four, 400 stocks over here, I could choose to go ahead and I could choose to apply strategy number one to this particular cluster, strategy number two to this cluster, and strategy number three to this cluster. Or if I have only single strategy, if I have only single strategy I might choose to reduce my position sizing. Okay, I might choose to reduce my position sizing for this set of companies which usually has negative returns and higher volatility. Okay, so I would basically go ahead and I would reduce the position size over here, which usually has lower volatility plus a bit higher return. I would want to increase my position size over here, if I have the same strategy and over here, which where the volatility is okay, but the returns are also not. I. I would I might not want to change anything over here. Okay, so I would want to keep my position sizing as they are. So depending on what kind of analytics that you are performing, what context will you provide? Depends on the modeler. Okay, so we discussed two, two applications like we might want to apply strategy number one to this particular group, number two to this group, and number three to this group. Or else, if we have this single strategy, we might want to decrease the position size over here. We might want to increase position size over here, and we might want to keep the position, size, same as over here, okay, on the other hand, on the other hand, practitioners also use this kind of analytics. Practitioners also use this kind of analytics to build strategy, to build statistical arbitrage pairs. Okay to build statistical arbitrage pair. How do they do it? Before I answer that part, I want to answer you this. I want you guys to answer this part. If I have 416

Speaker 1  46:22  
Stokes or observations in my data set, how? What is the list number of clusters that I can make? What is the list number of clusters that I can make for with such a data set? So okay, take five to 10 seconds and think of how what is the list number of clusters that we can make? I have received few responses. I am expecting a few more. The question is pretty simple, right? What is the list, number of data set that we can make one, right? That's true. So we can make the we can make the list number of clusters to be one. That is like, this is my cluster. I would say this is my cluster, perfect. Now the next question is, what is the maximum number of clusters that I can make? What is the maximum number of clusters that I can make for any data set? So

Speaker 1  47:47  
okay, okay, yep, yes, so almost all of you are correct. That is, we can make n number of data sets that like n number of clusters. That is, that is, that whatever number of data points that we have in our data set, we cannot create infinite we can create the number like maximum would be the end clusters. That is, the end number of data sets that we have the number of observations. That's true. So one of the ways of using this kind of algorithm in statistical arbitrage, is to create n by two clusters. Okay, is to create n by two clusters and then whatever stocks that go in each cluster use check the cointegration, and you check whether that pair works or not. Okay? Now see, it could happen that you need to retrain such a model every now and then, because, if you're just using only returns and volatility, okay, it will keep on changing on a daily basis. So it could also happen then it could also happen that the pairs could also change on a daily basis, right? But again, practitioners do use this, this kind of stuff. They do build statistical arbitrage model by creating N and divided by two number of clusters to come up with the new to come up with the pairs, okay? And then they back test on that part. So yes, that is something that people do all the way up to, yeah, you need to, uh, once you create those pairs, you need to check for the cointegration in the z score. Or to, oh. So someone says, Why n by two? Because you need at least two instruments in a pair, right? So if you, if you can create N maximum clusters, you create n by two so that you will have each cluster will be having two instruments in it, right? You mean, you. Yeah. Someone says, Can you show the raw data once? What are you calculating percentage change on? Oh, it's price data, right? It's, it is simply daily price data, we know. And yeah, the same question was asked for the by the shreyash, they are the price data. They are the they are simply the price data fetch from the Yahoo Finance. Of course, these are, these are the adjusted data. So I am just using the adjusted, adjusted data from the Yahoo Finance and calculating the percentage of it. So okay, how does clustering help, using returns and volatility? So, yeah, as we just discussed, right, it could help us in multiple ways. It often depends on the on the model, what kind of context the modular want to give and do we need to use only returns and volatility, not really. We could use any statistical property or any feature to cluster companies. I'm just using two over here. Okay, great. Now let's move on to the next part, which is like, how do we decide what, how many number of clusters do we? Do we really want to create, right? So until now, we have been using 333, all the way, right, but statistically, what should be the number of clusters that we should be creating for a given data set, and to do that, and to do that, what we can what we can measure, is this okay? So if we want to come up with the answer that, how many clusters should we really create for a given data set, if we want to answer that part. The one small activity that we can do is we shall go ahead and we shall calculate the absolute distance, the absolute distance between each point over here, okay, let me explain you over here. What I can do is, let's say this is my final state. Okay, this is my final state. If I want to calculate how many clusters should I? Should I create for a given data set? A small activity that we can do is this,

Speaker 1  52:39  
we, let's say we create first one cluster. Okay, once we create one cluster, we calculate, so if we create only one cluster, the centroid would be somewhere over here in the middle part. Okay, somewhere over here in the in the middle it would be somewhere over here. So what we do is we calculate the the absolute difference, the absolute distance from each of this observation and the centroid, okay, for all these observations. And then we simply go ahead and we simply sum the distances. Okay, so we do this for one cluster. Okay, then we repeat this activity of calculating the sorry. Once we calculate the absolute distance between centroid and all the observations, we sum those distances and we record the number. Okay, we sum the distances and we record the number. Then we create two clusters. Instead of creating one cluster, we create two clusters. And we then calculate the absolute sum of distances from all the observations and two centroids. And then we sum all those distances, the absolute distances. We then go ahead, and we create a model with three centroids with three clusters. We again repeat the same process. That is, we say, Get, we calculate the sum of absolute distances from the centroids and each observation, and we then sum them up. Okay, so this is the activity that we do from for multiple models. The first model will have only one cluster, the second model will have two clusters, the third model will have three clusters. And we go all the way up to, let's say, 15/15 model. That is the 15th, a model with 15 clusters, and for each of those models, we calculate the sum of the absolute differences between the centroids and each observation. Okay, this is what we do. And whatever the total sum is, we record that sum. That total sum of each of those 15 models is something that we record and then we plot it. Okay, that absolute that total sum is known as the modal inertia. That that absolute sum, the total sum is known as the modal inertia. Okay, so over here, that is, this is what we that is how we represent it mathematically, right? Once we go ahead and once we measure that number, all we do is we go ahead and we plot it up. Okay, so I have this code over here in which I am going to create 20 different models. I will start with first model having one cluster, and will go up to the 20th model having 20 clusters, and I will be calculating that total sum of absolute differences between those two those models, in each of those models, between centroids and the observations, okay, and whatever those total sum is, I'm going to plot those total sum so let me go ahead and let me Build those 20 models, and I'm going to then simply, so I'm going to use the same features that returns with the vitality, and I'm going to simply extract the inertia, or the total sum of each of those models, and then I'm going to plot it. Okay, so this is how the those total sum look like for each of the model okay. So on y axis, we have the model inertia. This model inertia is nothing but the average. So if we see over here, okay, this is the summation right over here. Instead of like absolute number, it is the squared differences. So again, you would get similar output. So it simply shows, shows us that we calculate the distance from the observations and their respective centroids, and then we sum them up, okay, and then we sum them up is we know that as we keep on increasing the number of

Speaker 1  57:17  
clusters in my data set, the distances between the centroids and the respective observations would decrease. Do you agree on this part, as we keep on increasing, as we keep on increasing the number of clusters in a data set, the distances between the centroids and the respective observations will keep on decreasing. Do you agree on this part? Because there would be more and more number of clusters, right? So the distances with the respective observations ideally should keep on decreasing, okay? And that is why, yeah, that is why we keep on seeing this, this chart to go lower and lower and lower. Okay, yeah, that's true. No, I'm not referring to any, any, any, any law of main reversal. No, no, no, no. I'm just, I'm just asking that, if there is, if we keep on increasing the number of clusters, the average distance should decrease, okay? And that is what we see from this chart, right? So, if you create just like 100, again, N, number of clusters, which is 416, this will basically go to zero, okay, this chart will basically go to zero. So how do we come up with the number of clusters? What we do is we plot this model inertia chart, and then we look at the part of this chart, where, where the elbow is made. Okay, we look at the part where this elbow is made, wherever the elbow is made is the number of clusters that we should go ahead with. Okay, so it is said that you should not have few clusters that should not you should not have, like very few number of clusters in your data set, which which you cannot extract any insights, and at the same time, you should not have as many clusters in your data set, which basically erases any meaning of having multiple clusters. Okay, so for this kind of charts, we should look at the elbow, where the elbow is being created, okay? And I see that the elbow is created somewhere over here, between two to four. So for any data set that we need to look at the model inertia chart, and wherever the elbow is created that number. Should be idle number of clusters in your data set. Is this clear? Everyone? Anyone has any questions? How do we decide the number of how do we decide the number of clusters in

Speaker 1  1:00:28  
so Yeah, usually it would be a range. But again, we would, we would go ahead and we would usually settle upon a range, settle upon a number, right? So if I go ahead and if I instead of creating three, if I go ahead and create a cluster with four. I will check the difference like I will go ahead and I will check the difference. See this time I got four. Now I will ask this to myself whether creating an extra cluster makes any sense or not, if creating an extra cluster does not make any sense. And if it the new cluster has only a few data points, I might not consider creating a new cluster, right? If I go ahead and if I increase, let's say, from four to five.

Speaker 1  1:01:19  
Okay, see over here, this time, we have only this one data we have only this one point in a new cluster, okay, does this again? We need to ask ourselves, does this make any sense if I have only one data point in my cluster, right? So, yeah, we need to ask these ourselves, how, how different like? What difference does it make to introduce a new cluster, right? Great. Let me go through other questions. Someone asked, why does it start with zero? What zero Are you? Do you referring? Are you referring to this cluster number? That's that's how the algorithm convention is right now. Again, it simply goes with the C. Again, it doesn't matter. Can the model keep running the clusters and come conclusion? How many clusters are enough by defined logic Not really. That is to do that, we need to have this kind of stuff with us so the model won't keep on running the clusters and it would, it won't conclude how many clusters it should create. No, is there an auto algo finder? No, not really. Nikolai, but again, so inside the tip, like, what people are now nowadays doing is people will go ahead, will will build a model, will come up with this kind of album, and it will, they will give it to the LLM and ask, LLM, like, Okay, how many clusters should I? Should we go with? Okay, so that is what practices are doing nowadays. What does moral inertia represents actually? Oh, okay, over here, this is the formula. It simply refer it simply calculates the sum of squared distances between the clusters of again, so multiple people have the same question, can we automate the optimal number of clusters? No, by this method, we cannot. But I just gave you the other idea, like, what people usually do. Someone says, I understand the model theory in the code, but unable to link how this will help me in trading next week and help me in make better decisions. No, this is not going to help me. Help you trade in next week. Okay? This is not going to take any trading decisions. Trading decisions will be taken by us. It just tells us like, Okay, how this companies cluster together now, what kind of decisions to take on different clusters of company relies entirely up to us. Okay, so one way you can use this analysis is like, I just shared three different ways. Okay, the fourth way to use these analysis is to create portfolio. Okay, so if you guys are aware of mean variance optimization, then you can basically consider these four clusters as four different portfolios, and then you can go ahead and create the main variance optimization of this four cluster, four constituent, sorry, four portfolios, and see what gives you the higher Sharpe ratio, if not, if, basically, you guys don't know what mean variance optimization is. We will cover that in Portfolio Management class.

Speaker 1  1:04:48  
Yes, returns and viability are the features true. Okay, so now that we have a really good understanding about these, how clustering works, let us quickly go ahead and quickly, I. Run these on another example, and then we can, we shall conclude this topic. Okay, I'm just going through the previous questions just to ensure that I have not missed any any of them. If someone says, If you drop Na, if you use drop Na, then the returns will not be days returns where the data points are dropped. No, no. So Vira, there is a distinction. There is a distinction. I am using, I am dropping columns. See, I am using x is equals to one here. So if I have any stock over here for which even one day's worth of data is missing, then the whole column would be dropped. Okay, so what you are saying is true, and that happens if I had used this part, okay, if I had used this way, then what should happen? Then the records or the or the or that particular row would be deleted, right? But instead, I am deleting the column. So what this drop and I will do is it will drop the entire column. So it's in that case, I will not be performing my analysis on that stock at all. Okay? So if you see, we had 502 instruments right, 23 got failed, and two were not found. So in total, we did not get data of 2025, instruments, which uses with 477 instruments to work with. But when I did this drop any x is equals to one, it went ahead in it, it visited even more columns. Okay, it visited more columns, and we are left only with 416 columns. So I hope these are these, these answers, your questions. Question, Vita, you So what to do if one row is zero in one in those 10,000 rows, can I use average on mode? You could use average, yes, that is the that is, that is what you can do, which is like you can impute or interpolate that number by using the average price? Yes, you can do that part. But over here, we are not doing that, but we are simply getting rid of that particular stock, right? Yeah, by using Drop. Na, are you reducing the stock? No, my idea was not to reduce the stroke. My idea is to have a clean data set, okay? And to get the clean data set, I could either go ahead and impute the data that is, I can interpolate those missing numbers, or I can simply get rid of them. And I am going, I am choosing the step number two, which is like getting the rid of that part. Okay, yeah, but yes, Vira, you are correct. You can use the average price, or possibly the use some kind of interpolation, okay, which basically cubic interpolation, or some kind of like linear interpolation, and to make the good guess of the price. Okay, great. Now that we are clear with all questions, we can go ahead and we can check, we could look at the second example. So in the second example, I have a similar problem statement, which is like, I have a group of companies, this time from the US markets. And instead of having those statistical properties, I have this fundamental ratios with me, right? So I have this how many I have somewhere around 360 plus companies with us. The data of 360 plus companies with me, and I have these six features with me. Okay, these, these are the six fundamental, fundamental issues that I have with me. My idea is to perform the similar analysis that is to segregate companies, this time, based on their fundamental data rather than the statistical data. Okay, so I'm only going to change the input, okay, the rest of the stuff will remain the same. So again, as as people were asking, like, again, what different features could we use? Again, this is what we can do. Okay, this is what we can do. So let me go ahead and let me input the import the data. Yeah, so this is the company data, company data dot CSU that I have.

Speaker 1  1:09:43  
So I have, in total, 360 plus rows, and there are seven columns, out of which I'm only going to use the first the later six ones, which are the stock names. Okay, sorry, which are the fundamental data? So this, I am just filtering those six columns. And if I go ahead and if I check the scatter plot of only two features, okay, if I go ahead and if I check the scatter plot of two features, this is how the scatter plot looks like, of beta versus debt to equity. Okay. Now see in my like, in our previous example, I specifically mentioned that we need to use scaling for such for such kind of algorithm, which is like, which uses the distance. Okay, so, oh, here what let me do one thing. I'm not going to, I'm not going to scale my data this time. Okay, I am not going to scale my data this time, but rather, I'm going to fit, or I'm rather, going to train the model on the raw data. And let's see what happens, okay, and let's see what happens. So I am importing the K means algorithm. I am you going to use the raw data to row six features without converting them, okay? And I am going to create the model and train it, extract the cluster numbers. Okay. Again, I am going to simply go with three clusters. You can perform that inertia activity and see what happens, right? So let me go ahead and let me directly see what changed. Okay, yeah, so this is how it created the clusters, just by looking at this chart. Do you see any issue just by looking at this chart? Do you guys can support an issue? So I have this data set with me over here. Okay, so I have forward P price to book, forward APS, beta, quick ratio, debt to equity. And then these are the clusters. Okay? So this is my row data set, okay, and based on the row data set, I created those clusters. And this is how the scatter plot looks like. Do you see any issue over here? So people, so people are saying that there is issue with Cluster One, the orange is putting all outliers in one cluster. Since you have six features, then why not use six clusters? No, it doesn't work that with shares. It doesn't it doesn't make sense. Like, if you 15 features, I should use 15 clusters, no, if to come up with the number of clusters, which we should always look at the inertia chart, right? Okay, how to build interpolation? That is a different question. Like, again, a bit out of scope. The orange one is putting the outliers in one clusters, the Cluster One has last distances the debt to equity is too stratified. Yes. Zubin, you are correct. So what we see over here is this, this algorithm just did the clustering based on the debt to equity part. Okay, it just created this cluster in this way. Now, why? Yes, Anusha, you are correct. It simply did. The horizontal distribution clusters are not clusters formed are not accurate. That's true. Why? The reason is, the reason is let me,

Unknown Speaker  1:13:45  
if we go through the data set, what we see over here,

Speaker 1  1:13:55  
this debt to equity has the highest numbers. Okay, so there are numbers in hundreds, okay, while all other numbers are pretty small, right? So it would be, it would be pretty clear if I go ahead and if I, if I, if I use the describe over here, see if I do the describe over here, let me clear all these drawings, and if I see this debt to equity, the mean is 103 while the mean of all the numbers Are all the features are very pretty small, all right, so clearly it gave undue importance to this particular feature. This algorithm gave undue importance to this feature because the main value is very high, okay, and as a result, what it did is as a. That what it did is it simply created clustered clusters based on this debt to equity feature, okay, ideally that should not be the case. So if we go ahead and if we now scale the data, okay, let me scale the data now, and if I

Unknown Speaker  1:15:21  
My bad, let me reread the data again. I scale the data here. Let me

Speaker 1  1:15:35  
so now, if I Okay, if I perform the describe on the data. Everything should be no, oh, my bad. My bad. Okay, I should be using data scaled over here, right?

Speaker 1  1:16:04  
It would be data scaled and, yeah, if I described data scaled or the means or the main values are zero over here, okay, the earlier it would be, it was very, very much, all over the place, okay? And if I go ahead now, if I use data scaled over here, right, let us see how does the scatter plot looks like where I'm using the scatter plot. Wait, oh, okay, I get the issue.

Speaker 1  1:17:02  
Let us scale. Does not have this part, so I need to go ahead and add it to

Speaker 1  1:17:13  
instead of doing all this, I should have ideally changed the variable name. But okay, no worries, right. Okay, so this is how now the sketch upload looks like. Now we see that like there are no clear distinction between the clusters based on these two features. But there does not mean that this clustering is incorrect, okay, because the data set that we have this time is higher dimensional data. And it simply means that with these two features, the with these two features, the clustering is not visible, okay. And that is, that is entirely okay. So the initial data. The initial incorrect clustering was this okay, and the correct clustering is this part. Why? Because over here, everything is now scaled, and because of the scaling and the higher dimensionality of the data, we cannot clearly visualize the distinctions or the boundaries between those clusters, which is entirely Okay, right? But this kind of clustering is ideally, should one should go for, okay? So one of the, one of the projects that you guys can take up in your final project module, which is to is to create a portfolio using clustering, okay, which is usually like kind of trendy stuff nowadays, and people are experimenting quite a few, much, quite, quite a few things over here. So, yeah, this is what clustering is. Let me take any questions. If there are else, we shall move to the next topic. How to uniformize the features input? Yeah, we scale it, right? So this is what we do to to bring every feature on the on this, on the same range. We go ahead and we scale them. Okay. How are x axis and y axis are defined? No, there. I am just creating a scatter plot of those two features, net to equity and beta. Okay, any more questions, anyone with regard to whatever we have discussed until now? Or are we clear? If we are clear, can you please press one else? Please feel free to put in your question. Put in your question. Okay, so if things are pretty much clear, let's take a small break. After the break, we'll come back and we'll start with the neural network. Neural networks, right? Okay, great. It, so it's okay. I don't have my time module running on so let me just open the time is so on my screen, it's 1720 let's reconvene at 1731 and after that, we shall start with the neural networks. All right, I'll see you in the 10 minutes time bye.

Speaker 1  1:30:36  
Alright, I believe you guys have the good brother, can someone quickly confirm if I'm audible loud and clear? Perfect. Thanks, Zubin, so let me close this and let me go back to the pot. So I had this question from Vishal, who is saying, like, can you show us the calculation of returns in volatility? Oh, they are the pretty straightforward calculations, right? Yeah, here they are. So all we do is like, we take the past one year, past one year of data, and we calculate the total returns, total net returns, and the annual responsibility. That's it cool, great. So it's time that we move on to the next topic of the class, which is the deep learning part. Okay, so when we started this series, this module, like we discussed about how artificial intelligence comprises of machine learning and deep learning, and now, in the past few months, it the definition has expanded into like, what we what we know is Agent AI and whatnot, but the primary this field consist of machine learning and deep learning. Okay, so we were discussing everything that we need to know to work with machine learning until now. Okay, now our focus shifts on this deep learning part, which is largely inspired by how human brains takes decisions. Okay, so the the field of deep learning is not new. The field of deep learning exist on a since 1970s 1980s when mathematicians and statisticians used to create networks by hand and what not but without much availability of compute power, they were quite limited, excuse Me. And from early, early 2000s when the computing took leap, okay? And the computing power was available at at, at a cheaper cost. The field of deep learning again emerged, and whatever new advances that we are now currently experiencing is because of this particular field known as deep learning, right? So deep learning is a pretty wide and pretty deep field of the whole ecosystem known as artificial intelligence. What we are going to do today is going to cover the many mechanics of what it entails and what are the different components of the deep learning, or also known as the artificial neural networks, which are inspired by how human spaces take decisions. Okay, before we begin, there was, there is a question, like, from where did I downloaded this six features this week? This features were downloaded from a proprietary data vendor, again, but you can use Yahoo Finance to download historical, historical fundamental data, at least it is available for the US markets, and to an extent, it is also available for the Indian markets. You might not find all those fundamental issues, but yeah, they have financed your finance help decent amount of fundamental data from Indian markets as well. Okay? Or you could also download it from your broker, if they support it. Okay, great. So please focus over here for the next half an hour. If this concepts are not clear, it would be pretty difficult if once we move to the Python side. Okay, so please pay attention over here and understand what. We are discussing. If you guys have any questions, please, please feel free to put it on the question box. I shall address them as and when I can. Okay, so what we see on the screen is a representation of a biological neuron. Okay, this biological neuron is the key.

Speaker 1  1:35:26  
You. Is the key with which we can take decisions in real life. Okay, this biological neuron consists of three parts. The first is the dendrite, okay, from where it receives information. The second part is the nucleus where the information received on the dendrite is being processed. And once the information is processed inside the nucleus, the processed information is passed on to the other neuron via X and terminal. Okay, so there are main three parts of this biological neuron with which humans take decisions. The first one is the dendrite where the information is received. The second part is the nucleus where the information is processed, and then we have this action terminal from where the information, the processed information is passed or to other, another neuron. Okay, now see, the average adult human would have such 86 billion neurons in a brain. Okay, the adult average, the average adult human, would have 86 billion neuron in the brain. What does it mean is there is no single neuron that takes the entire decision, okay. In other words, the information that we receive from all our senses, okay, the information that we receive from all our senses goes to hundreds or millions of those neurons at once. All those neurons process some part of the information that we have received, okay, each of those neurons processes the part of the information that we have received through our sensory organs, and all of those neurons take collective action based on the process data, right? So it could happen that the biological neurons in our brain which receives information on dendrite. It could happen that whenever we touch something Okay, whenever we feel something, that information is received by certain neurons, whenever we see something, or when you hear my voice Okay, or whenever you smell something, or if you taste something, all that information, right? Let me. Let me put it in a visualized way, whenever we touch something, okay, or whenever we see something, or if you hear my voice or or, in other words, if you smell something, and at the same time, if you taste something, your brain is going to process all these information coming from different sensory from various sensory organs. All that information goes to the different parts of the brains which contains these the networks of such biological neurons, and each of those neurons process a part of information. Okay? So it could happen that whenever you touch something, some specific part of your brain processes that information, and when we say processes that information a specific part of your brain, and the neurons residing on in that part of the brain are going to get activated, are going to process, like whatever the information that you are receiving. Okay, so this field of artificial intelligence, or also known as a deep learning, okay, which also, again, which is also known as the artificial neural networks, try to replicate this whole process, right? That is,

Speaker 1  1:39:56  
we try to replicate how this individual neuron. Works, and then we try to create network of such artificial neurons. Okay, now, once we have this basic understanding of how we humans take decisions, how we get information, and how the certain parts of the specific parts of the brain gets activated by different actions, by different information. Okay, the certain neurons get activated or fired, and they take collective decisions, and based on whatever decision those collection of neurons take, we then convert that, that decision into action, okay, now, if this thing, if this is clear, we we shall discuss, how does the artificial neuron tries to replicate this behavior? Okay, but before we do that, we need to understand for what kind of applications or where does artificial neural networks are being used. Okay, so artificial neural networks, or the deep learning, is usually used as a supervised learning we can use the same neural network that we are going to discuss the we are going to we can use the same model, either for classification or regression, right as you guys will learn and understand when we build the network. The same network could be used for classification as well as for regression. So you guys need to have this thing clear in the mind. We use networks, artificial neural networks, or the deep learning, for the supervised learning, and not the unsupervised learning, right? So this is like, again, the supervised learning, okay? You can consider that artificial neural network is just another supervised learning algorithm. Okay, although it's not usually you would you you won't find this information in the in any literature, because people don't put it under such categorization. But yeah, it is used for supervised learning. Okay, okay, coming back to the discussion on the neurons. So what we try to do is we try to replicate this part. Now, how do we replicate this part? How do we replicate this part? So again, for over here on the left hand side, we have, I have the same biological neuron in different colors, and we see the three parts of it, dendrites, nucleus and accent, okay. And on the right hand side, we have the replicated artificial neuron. And now let's go one by one and see what it is the very first part of the biological neuron is the dendrite. Okay, so what does dendrite do? Dendrite usually receives information from the sensory organs. That is, it receives the information based which needs to be processed. Now, in our case, what is the information? In our case, informations are the features, right? So what you see here this x1 x2 all the way up to xn, okay, they are the features. So there, these are the features. Okay, then we have the second part right, which is the nucleus. That is the information that we receive on the dendrite goes to the nucleus, and over here, this blue circle represents the nucleus. Now, what happens actually inside the nucleus. What happens inside the nucleus is important, and let's understand why.

Speaker 1  1:44:08  
See in a classical setting, when we say we receive information on the dendrite, what actually happens is, first this dendrites try to try to give the various level of importance is to the information that we have been receiving, okay? That is if at the same if we receive like 10 different information at the same time, okay, we choose to give certain certain information more importance than the other. I repeat, if we receive 10 in 10 pieces of information at the same time, we humans tend to give much some more importance to certain pieces of the information and whatever we. Don't find important, we simply discard those pieces of information. Okay, so over here, this x 1x 2x n, they are the features, okay? They are the features of our data set, which we usually, which we saw on the 40 supervised learning layer, right? So this is, I don't have over here, here, I do have here, ml data, data set, right? So these are the features. These were the features that we had. Now, if we provide all these features to the model at the same time, okay, what does the neuron tries to do is neuron tries to provide importance is to each of those features which are represented as w1 w2 all the way to W N. Okay, so this w1 is the weight provided, or the importance provided to x1 the feature one w2 is the weight or the importance provided to x2 or the feature two, all the way up to last feature, the feature Okay, so over here in the nucleus, part, the nuclear spot of the artificial artificial neuron, we create the linear function. We create the linear function. And what do we mean by the linear function, we simply mean this. So let's say if there are three features in our data set, what happens is we create x1, w1, plus x2, w2, so over here, the x is nothing, but our features. W is the respective weight, okay, and we have this x3 w3, and this is our z, okay, this is our linear equation. So our linear equation equals to z. Over here, let me put it w capital Z. So this linear function z is nothing, but it's a linear function comprises of all features along with their importances. I hope this is clear until this point in time. Okay, so what happens is, whenever we provide information to the artificial neuron, the neuron receives all those features, and this weights will be provided to each of those features, and then a linear function is created, known as z, okay, once this z is created, once this linear function or linear equation, is created, it is then passed. It is then passed. Please pay please pay attention. Over here, this linear function which, yeah, okay, so over here, once the dendrite receives the information, it receives information inside the nucleus. Okay, the nucleus is now. The nucleus now knows, like what information is necessary or important and which information needs to be discarded based on the weights. Okay, once the information is provided, now the nucleus has to take decision. Now the nucleus has to take decision what, like, how to process that information. So over here in the artificial neuron, the linear equation z is now passed to something known as the activation function I repeat is passed the linear equation z is passed to the to some activation function Known as F, okay. So it becomes like this. Now I will come to this activation function in a moment, but just understand why, which is our output? Okay, why, which is our output? Is a function of z, okay. Now this f is basically

Speaker 1  1:48:58  
activation function. Now, what is activation function and how do like, how do we use it? I will come to this in a two in the next few minutes. But just understand at this point in time that y, which is the output, is a function, or is basically, is a function of the linear equation, okay, which is then passed to the activation function. Okay. Now, you guys might have a question that we know this x1 x2 x3 because we know those features right. So we already are familiar with these data set that is the classification data set over here, and we know how these features are created. We we already learned that in the previous class. So we know what this x1, x2 x2 x3 and all the way up to x and r, right? But what this w1, w2, w3 are like, how do we know like, what, what importance to give to what features? And. Which is, which is important or not right. So usually, that is the optimization problem. That is what the neural, the neurons, has to learn. If we know that, if we, as the modeler, know that which particular function, which particular feature, is important than the other, then we don't require any any of this kind of machine learning aspects, right? We could easily build this function by ourselves, and we could go ahead and we could use this function so we don't know what these importances are. The machine learning algorithm or these artificial neural network has to learn this w1 w2 w3 on its own, right? So this is what we are optimizing for. This is what we this neural network will learn like what this Empower for. These weights are will be learnt by the artificial neural network, not us. If we knew, then we could have simply went ahead, and we could have created this equation by ourselves, and we would have arrived at y by ourselves. Only we could have done these competitions manually, rather than these networks helping us to figure out what those importances are. Okay, let me take some questions, and then we'll we shall move forward. Yes, yes. Juvin, so this is the brain cell. Neuron means nucleus, no nucleus is a part of the neuron. So someone says how to supervise or unsupervised learning. Again, we discuss this in the very first lecture, whenever we have input where the data is, along with the labels we we shall call that kind of algorithm as supervised learning and whatever, whenever we help data without labels, just as we saw With the clustering algorithms, such algorithms are known as unsupervised learning. How does artificial neuron help in mid frequency trading? We'll come to that part towards the end of the class, when I will show you the examples and the back testing part. Okay. Oh. Arvind, do let me know if that is the case. Again, I don't think that is the case now. So Zubin says that, okay, artificial neural. Neuron means instinct, which is the evolutionary knowledge, yep, and plus the learned skills, which is the the skills that we learn by practice or training, absolutely, that's true. On what basis weights will be assigned? Do we play any part in it, or not really money. But again, like towards the end of this notebook, we will understand how the how this paid weights are being calculated. But if you Okay, yeah, but if you have any other questions with regard to this, do let me know. We'll come to the weight spot in a few minutes. Okay, great. So this is how the artificial neuron works. And while discussing this part. What we discussed is that once this linear function is created, the linear function, or the linear equation, is passed to something known as the activation function. F, okay, now what does this activation function and why do we even care for it. So in mathematics, there are many activation functions available out there.

Speaker 1  1:53:47  
Okay, few of them are mentioned over here. So what you see are these activation functions and their payoffs. Not. My bad, they are not. These are not the payoffs. These are the charts on where x axis is the input. That is the z. Let me just write it over here. Okay, see. So this is the first activation function. Value, Lucky value, 10, H, linear, binary step. So there are just, like, a few dozens of activation functions available out there. Okay, I'm what, what you guys need to take from this image is this be any activation function? It is you take any activation function on this chart, what you see is, on the x axis we have the Z part, okay, the linear equation that we have, and on the y axis we have the y value, or the output, okay, so over here, this is the z part, which is the linear equation. That we just calculated over here, this particular z equation, right, which goes on the x axis and y, which is the output, is the output over here. Okay. So if we take the example of this value, okay, if we take the example of this ReLU activation function

Speaker 1  1:55:31  
over here, so see what happens. Is ReLU is defined as maximum of zero or z. So this Z basically is nothing but whatever input that we are providing. So this z, okay. If we see over here, if we are providing five, then output is the same as five, okay. If the input is negative, okay, then it would be maximum of zero or z, then the output would be zero. Okay, so this is one of the activation activation functions out there. Likewise, there are just so many activation functions available in the machine learning in the artificial intelligence field. Now, if there are just so many activation functions available out there, like SVC, radio, Lucky radio, hyperbolic tangent, linear, binary step. What, not sigmoid. What activation function should we really concern about? Okay, what really what activation functions are we? Should we be really concerned about? We should be really concerned about only four to practically work with this field. The first one is the 10 H, the exact and the formula over here is this. The 10 H is the hyperbolic tangent, okay. The second one is the radio, which we just saw. The third one is the sigmoid, okay. Sigmoid is the same. Is the logic function that we discussed in the very first lecture, which is given to us one upon one plus e raised to negative Z, or the negative linear function. Okay, and the key value, which is just an extension of the ReLU function, over where, over the instead of zero, we apply some kind of error part over here, when, whenever the value is negative. Okay, so these are the only four activation function that we should be concerned about at this point in time. Now, let us do one thing. Let us go ahead and let us see how the result of each of these functions vary when we provide the same input. So if I provide the same input, Z, how each of these functions would vary. Okay. So over here I have another visualizer, which is a which will take the x value, okay? When I say x value, x value is whatever X values is going to be our Z, Z part, right? So z is always going to be our input part, and what we see f of x over here is basically our output. Once we see over here, I will tell you, what are the things that we need to look at. Okay, great. So if I input, yeah, if I input, say, five over here, okay. So as we see over here first, let's take a look at sigmoid, or the logit function. If we input five, which is a positive number, okay, the output or radio is five. See, so for ReLU, the output is five, okay, because as we, as we, as we learned ReLU is maximum of zero or z, so maximum of zero or the input. So input is five, and if it is greater than five, zero, so it is five over here in sigmoid, we know that. Let me, let me also type in over here for sigmoid, the output range, okay. Output range like, let me make it a bit bigger so that you guys can see for out the output range would be rain in the in the range of zero to one, okay. And for 10 H or the hyperbolic tangent, the output range would be in the range of negative 121, okay, which means that the output will never go beyond zero or above one. For sigmoid and for. 10 H, the output will never go beyond negative one or above positive one. Right for ReLU, what is the output range? It would be zero or z, okay, whatever the input is. And for 10 H, not 10 H for the radio, the output would be very similar to what we have over here. Okay, so let me put it this way. Let me put it this way.

Speaker 1  2:00:40  
I will come to these questions Shreyas and zebin. Just give it two minutes. Okay, so now let us go ahead and let us understand. Let us understand how different inputs work with different outputs, right? So over here, we gave the five over here, and we as we see, so keep this output range in mind. Okay, guys, keep this output range in mind for sigmoid, ReLU and 10 H. So instead of like,

Speaker 1  2:01:21  
yeah, okay, so four, let me give instead of five, let me give 15. So over here we see for radio, the output is the same as the input, because the number is positive. For sigmoid, the number is one because it cannot go beyond one. Likewise, for 10 H, the number is still one because it cannot go beyond one. Okay for radio, for positive number. The again, it would be function. It would function same as radio, orderly, great. Again, if I go back to five, then we see radio will have five. Five out is an output. But over here for sigmoid, it is 0.993 and for 10 H, it's one. Okay. Now let me go still to one. Okay. See the value in sigmoid and 10 H are similar. Really will be still one, because what is the input? What if I provide zero, okay? If I provide zero for 10 H, the value is exactly the Midway, which is like midway of minus one and one which is the zero. Okay. For sigmoid, the value would be midway of zero and one which is point five. And for relief, it would be zero. What if I go in the negative territory, negative one? Okay, see the value in sigmoid and 10 H will now start approaching towards the lower bound. Okay. So over here it is going towards zero. For real ReLU and liquid, it would be always zero, okay. For Ricky ReLU, for negative value, it would be somewhere, somewhere near, somewhere near to zero, not exactly zero. For ReLU, it will always be zero, okay. What if I go to negative five? See, for negative five, ReLU and Ricky ReLU would be zero. Sigmoid, it would reach to the lower bound zero, okay. And 10 h would be negative one, okay. If I go negative 15, we will still be at the lower bound for sigmoid, and that 10 H and for ReLU, it would be again, somewhere zero. Okay, so this is how this activation functions work. And now this activation functions play an important part in the in deciding the non linearity in the data. Okay, so what? What actually happens over here in this activation function, okay, based on whatever input that we provide. So on this z which are, which is a function of the linear data, along with the importance is, once you create this linear data, okay, once, once it go, goes through the activation function, okay, it learns about the non linearity of the input, right? So, based on what activation function do we select, we as a modular select, okay, we need to select the activation function. And based on whatever activation function that we select, the model will learn weights accordingly, okay, the model will give output accordingly, right? So, how does, how do this activation function work? And why do we need it? We need it because we want to learn the association between the input and the output. And we, as the modular believe that whatever data set that we are working. Which is usually, is usually more understood by one of this activation function and why these are called activation function. They are called activation function because they activate based on what input it get. Okay, this activation functions get activate based on what input it gets, which is which, in turn, is a function of the features that we use, right? So remember, like when we were discussing these biological neuron I specifically mentioned that when the dendrites receive information, it is passed on to the nucleus, and based on the information that the nucleus receives and whatever process it does, it goes here and it gets fired. Okay. So likewise, whether this neuron needs to be fired or not depends on the input that we provide in this linear function. Okay. So these were the these are the activation functions that we are with that we will be using. Once we start using it, it will start making more and more sense. But before that, let me check the questions, and then I will proceed further.

Speaker 1  2:06:16  
How to see that activation function. I will come to that part. I will come to that part. Why? Why only these four perfect? So if you see the four activation function that we just discussed, okay, this usually, these, usually, again, these four functions usually carry all kind of non linearity, okay, so if we talk about radio, so radio simply says that, okay, if your input is positive, you go positive as you simply as you simply turn off that neuron. Okay. In sigmoid, we say that no matter how big the input is, we shall map it to 100% or 0% okay, depending on the whatever input that we receive. And in 10 h, we say that whatever input that we receive, we shall always provide either 100% importance, or we should flip it. Okay, so this four activation function captures all kind of non linearities. Okay, we can go ahead and nothing is stopping us to use like all these other activation functions, but most of the time, these functions would usually give you very similar results, okay? And not at times, but more frequently, this binary step function, the linear function, they would not make much more contribution is the other four that we discussed do. Okay. So empirically, it has been seen that out of whatever activation functions that are available out there, this four activation functions are the ones that usually make a really good amount of contribution. Okay, okay, coming to the next question, can we say 10 H and sigma function will be useful for a classification and ReLU and leaky ReLU will be, yeah, you will Yeah. We'll come to that part. Manikan, then we'll come to that part. So someone says, Then why activation function has negative number on the x axis? Yeah? Because, see, x axis could be anything, right? So this z value, the input, the input right? It could be anything. It could be positive, negative, anything. So again, when we say this value right, we are talking about y value. Okay, this is y value. So when we say this value right, we are referring to this F, which is the activation function. So these are the activation function, of which would basically give us the output. Okay, these are the activation functions. So input could be negative, input could be negative, but depending on the choice of activation functions, the output could be negative or positive, either. Okay. How to derive x value, x value is basically a function of this right x value. X value means the Z input. Okay, it is basically a function of the features that we have. If we don't use any activation function, what will be the output when z goes to five? If we don't use any activation function, then the output will be the same as the input right? Because we don't use any activation function. So not using any activation function is akin to using the linear function the center one, okay, so basically, which simply says that whatever the input is will be the output. Okay, so if we don't use any activation for. Question, the input will be the output, right? So if z equals to five, the output would also be equals to five. Okay, what is this expansion of radio? Oh, so expansion of radio is the Ricky ReLU, what you see over here in the bottom right. So this Ricky radio, if you, if we, if we go ahead and if we pay attention to the to the way, so it again, nothing changes when the value is positive, right? So when you so the output for the relief and the Ricky radio will always be, always be the same when the input is positive, however, when the input is negative, okay, see, for value, it will always be zero. So because it is defined as maximum of zero or Z, right? But for leaky radio, the output would be would not always be exactly zero, but it would be some form of zero. It would still be zero only. Okay, it would still be zero only, but it would be like some some number after zero, some decimal numbers after zero. Why is that? Because when we,

Speaker 1  2:11:12  
when we make, when we, let me explain you here, when we create these equations, right, when we create these equations, if we have zero all the time, then there are times when those mathematical equations can be can't be carried out. Okay, so if we say that the mathematical equations can't be carried out because of zero, instead of zero, we use very small number, okay, which is equivalent to zero, right? And it gives us, like, very similar results. So leaky radio is the leaky radio was invented just to avoid those kind of mathematical mismatch. Nothing else, okay, oh, you are referring to the acronym so it it stands for ReLU stands for rectified linear unit. Rectified linear unit simply say linear Lu, okay. Re stands for rectified. Why it is rectified because it was created from this linear, linear activation function, which which you see in the very center. Okay, so someone asked like, why don't we use other popular functions, like exponential, again, that is to do with the mathematical aspect of these formulas. If you use mathematical if you use exponentials, right, it would basically explode the algorithm to an extent that it gives you won't be able to converge to a number that finds the W. So I will come to that part when we discuss how the weights are calculated. Give me to give me a few minutes. Okay, great. So now that we are pretty much clear with what this activation functions are and what this part are, let us go ahead and let us discuss the few extensions of what these artificial neural network could be okay. So the very first model, and the very first, the very first, naive and the simple model is the perceptron model. So in the perceptron model, all we do is we simply take the input, whatever the input is, we multiply it with the weights, okay, and these weights are to be decided by the algorithm. We don't know what these weights are. They are to be decided by the weights. They are to be decided by the model. And then we apply these so again, this W, i, x, I is the linear function z, and that linear function z is then passed on to the activation function f. So whatever the output of that neuron, single neuron is, would be our output. Okay, so this is a very nice in the very first model that people usually start with, which is a perceptron model. It is very, very simple model. It does not usually make any sense. It does not usually learn anything. But, yeah, it is the perception model. Okay. Now, if this is the very simple model and the very it uses only single artificial neuron, but it it, it doesn't learn much. What can we do? Like, what are the what are the other things that we could do with this model. So we say that instead of using single neuron, okay, instead of using single neuron, let's go ahead and let's use multiple neurons, because that is what average human brain do, right? So. So the next kind of model that we have is the feed forward model. The next kind of the model that we have here is the feed forward model, wherein we have three neurons, okay, so over here the how this network or the model is decided. So first we have the input layer. Okay, so this is the input layer that we have, right, which is basically our features, layer, x1 x2 x3 and x4 Okay, so these are of these are our this is our input layer, where we have four features, then we have second layer, which is the hidden layer. Okay, so this is the neuron number one.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:57  
Okay. This is the neuron number two. And this is the neuron number three.

Speaker 1  2:16:09  
And lastly, we have the third layer, which is the output layer, okay, which is simply the output of that we intend to get. Okay, so there are three layers in the feed forward model. Why it is called feed forward, because the information will pass from layer number 1222, all the way up to output layer three. Okay, so information is feeding from the in a forward way. Okay. Input layer, hidden layer and output layer, 123, input layer is basically our features that we provide. Now, instead of having only one neuron, we have three neurons over here, and we have only one output over here. Now see, one might say that, why do we why do we need to provide the same piece of information to multiple neurons? Because all those neurons are going to get the same information, and as a result, they are going to make the make similar decisions. Then why are we even wasting this computing power, or why are we even wasting time to make multiple similar decisions. Okay, so what I'm saying is one good question that, why are we providing the same set of input to multiple neurons wherein they are going to process that information in the same way? No. So what happens is this, the information dissuade the information pursued by neuron one, okay, the information pursued by neuron one, about all these four features would be different. Okay, would be different. Then how the information is perceived by neuron two, right? So what is going to happen is this, the information pursued by each of these neurons over here, each of these artificial neurons will be different, although the inputs are same. Now you might ask, how is that possible? Like, if we are providing the same piece of information, how do they pursue the same set of information in a different way? The answer is really simple. Or could anyone want to guess, like, why they would pursue different Why do why would they pursue the same piece of information in different way? Would anyone want to take this? It's really simple. Yep, exactly, right. So the weights would be different. So the neuron one would receive or would pursue different weights compared to neuron two, and neuron three would have different weights compared to the previous two neurons. So in a way, what is happening is each of the neurons are receiving the same piece of information, but they are perceiving the same piece of information in a different way, and hence they all get different inputs. Z, is this particular guys, is the weights are different. Is the weights are different? The linear function that will be created, the Z for each of these neurons, one, two and three, those input Z, or the linear function z would be different for each of the neurons. Is this part clear to everyone? So again, someone asked how to add different weights to input? We don't aid. We don't add any inputs or. Sorry, we don't add weights to input. They will be created by the algorithm on its own. Okay, how do weights are how do weights are assigned and created? They are created by the model on its own. But Is this part clear everyone that the z function that each of these neurons will receive would be different, right? And as a result, what is going to happen is the linear function is different. As the linear function is different, right? If we apply, if we apply the same activation function to all of these neurons, the output will still be different. Okay, I repeat. We are going to apply the same activation function to all these neurons, and even after applying the same

Speaker 1  2:20:54  
activation function to all these neurons, the output will be different. Why? Because input z is different. I hope this is clear, and if not do, let me do. Do, let me know, do, ask me. I am happy to explain again, right? So what this means is this, whenever we are working with neural network, okay, whenever we are working with neural network, let me select the different part, any hidden layer, any hidden layer can have only one activation function, and it could be anything. Okay, so if I, if I choose to go with radio over here, right, all these three neurons will receive radio activation function. Or if I go with sigmoid activation function, okay, all these activation all these neurons are going to receive the sigmoid activation function. Or if I go with 10 H, okay, all these neurons are going to receive 10 H. I cannot do like. I cannot say that. Okay, this will help sigmoid. This will have radio or this will help 10 H. I cannot do this. This is incorrect. Okay, I cannot do this part. This is incorrect. I need to specify what activation function to be used at a layer level, okay, at a layer level, so I would say that at hidden in hidden layer, I want to use a radio activation function, okay, then in that case, all of all these neurons will receive the same activation function value, right? And even though they are receiving the same activation function value, the output that they are that they're going to produce will be different, okay, so keep this in mind now not just the output, the output is obviously going to be different, but then what's going to happen is, but then What is going to happen is very interesting that even these neurons, which will pass the processed output to the output layer, will have their own weights. Okay, will have their own weights. So all these arrows that you see over here they they represent, they represent the weight. And over here, this output neuron that we see here, it will also have its own activation function. Okay, it will have also its own activation function. So over here, the z will be built, the linear function will be built. And this linear function, this time, will comprises of the outputs produced by neuron one, two and three, along with the respective weights. And then this z will be passed on to the activation function of this y. It would be anything again. It could be it could be again a radio or sigmoid, or 10 H, okay, it could be anything. And whatever the output of these y activation function is, sorry, whatever the output of these output layer is, right, that will be our final output, right? So this is what happens when we create a feed forward model. There are, it's pretty simple, in a sense. It consists of input layer, hidden layer and the output layer. Okay, input layer is input layer represents the data that we have. Basically the features. Hidden layer comprises of the new neurons, the artificial neurons and the output. Output layer consists of the artificial, again, neurons, which will eventually give us our output. Okay, so this is what we have when we say we have a feed forward model. Okay, pretty simple stuff. Let me move forward. So what we did over here is. Process, we started with a single perceptron model wherein we had only one neuron, okay? And we said that, okay, this is the single neuron that we have, but it it is pretty simple, and it does not have capability to understand complex data. So what we did was we say that, okay, instead of using single neuron, let's go ahead and let's use multiple neurons. And that is what we did here. But we say that, okay, what is stopping us from introducing multiple such neurons organized across layers? Okay, what is stopping us from using multiple neurons organized across multiple layers? And that brings us to deep neural network, right? Why deep neural network? Because over here, the information passes deep.

Speaker 1  2:25:53  
The information goes deep in the network before producing the output. Okay, so the information is going within the layers of the hidden layers, sorry, within the network of the hidden layers. And as a result, we say it is deep neural network. Again, over here we have input layer, okay, which is our which basically makes our features. Then we have over here, three, hidden layer, one, two and three. Okay. And lastly, we have the output layer over here, right? Great, as we discussed in the previous model, if we want, we cannot have different activation function in different neurons, right? So I cannot tell Ray over here, I cannot tell sigmoid over here. I cannot tell like 10 h over here. I need to define, I need to define neuro activation functions at the layer level, okay, at the layer level. So what I can do is I can specify, I can specify what activate, what activation function to use on a single layer. So if I say that this particular activation, or this particular layer uses ReLU, this uses sigmoid, and this again, uses ReLU, this is possible. We can do this part. So what happens all these four neurons over here, they will use ReLU, all these four activation, all these four neurons will be using sigmoid, and again, the for all four neurons in the first layer would use radio. Okay, this is possible. We can specify the same neuro the same activation function across layers, or the different however we want. But we cannot specify neuro activation function for each individual neurons. Keep this in mind. We also need to specify, we also need to specify the activation function for the output layer here as well, right? So this is what is possible and what is not so. Now the question is, now I have the question for you. Before I take the question, let me do one thing. Let me just erase this part. Okay, let me check what the questions you guys have. Then I will ask my question. Okay,

Speaker 1  2:28:41  
should the activation function in hidden layer and output layer should be the same, or it can be different. It could be different, okay, so we define activation layer, activation functions at a at a layer level, so it could be different for hidden layer and the output layer. Yeah. Absolutely does feed forward network always have exactly one hidden layer, not really, but the textbook definition says that feed forward network usually means a model which one hidden layer. But again, this deep neural network is also known as the feed forward model, right? Because the information again, flows from the input layer to the output layer, but again, so feed forward model is a generic term as such. Okay, so in deep neural network, how to select activation function? I will come to that part. Okay, so what is the So someone asked, what is the benefit of using different activation functions? So the benefit of using a different activation function is that it gives you the flexibility to it gives you the flexibility for your model to learn different patterns in your data. Okay, if you're. Data is quite complex. And if your data is quite ease of high dimensions, okay, you need to have enough complex model that it can learn those patterns, right? So, yes, what is the what is the benefit if you provide different activation functions in your function, in your in your in your network, it will allow your model to look at data from different perspectives. Okay, great. Again. Someone says, can you explain it real time? Trading example, before we do that, we need to explain. We need to understand the basic concepts, right? If we don't understand the basic concepts, how do we, how do we are going to understand the trading part? So, guys, please, please be patient for some time. I will eventually come to the trading part, real example. Okay, but we need to understand what these hidden layers are. What these output layers are, please. Okay, my bit sorry coming to coming back to this topic, where were we hidden layers and the activation functions, right? Okay, so now I have questions for you guys based on the four important activation functions that we learned over here, sigmoid, ReLU, 10, H, okay. Now, if I say if I want to create this activation, if I want to train these neural network Okay, to classify, to classify whether the stroke will go up or not, okay, which is basically I want To, I want to create a neural network which will classify whether the stock is going to go up or not. And when I say it's going to go up, I'm going to buy, okay, that is one, okay. And if it is not going to go up, I'm going to step flat. I am basically don't go do I am not going to do anything. I will basically keep on hold. Okay, so what activation function Do you guys believe should I use in the output layer? What activation function should I use over here in the activation function? So take five seconds or so and try to answer if I am building a classification model where my target vector or my target a value should be either zero or one, what activation function should I use in the output player? So

Speaker 1  2:33:07  
yeah, so whether it's Boolean right, it is either zero or one, right? But what activation function gives me this value?

Speaker 1  2:33:22  
I Okay, so people are going in different direction, in a way, they are using all these binary functions and this one, okay, let me make it simple for you guys, either like, instead of binary or step or those kind I'm specifically, specifically asking from these four.

Speaker 1  2:33:55  
Okay, the answer is we should go for sigmoid, right? Because for sigmoid, for sigmoid, the upper and the lower bounds are always going to be zero or one. Okay, the upper bounds are always going to be zero and one. So we the idea is here that if we use the binary, or if we use the

Unknown Speaker  2:34:26  
okay

Speaker 1  2:34:29  
Sigmund function, okay, it is going to give us the okay. My bad, I lost my chain of thought. So the idea is, like we should use sigmoid function, because it the output is always going to be between zero and one. So if the output value, whatever the output value of this z, is greater than 0.5 then it would be converted to one, or else it would be converted between two zero. Up. Okay, great, instead. Instead, what if I want to make a classification system that tells me to go buy my bet? Let me change the color to buy, okay, which is for plus one, and sell, which is negative one.

Speaker 1  2:35:36  
Yep. Debashis, this is for you. Please don't remove the answers okay, sir, yeah, thanks. Yeah. So my question is, if I want to build a classification system, what activation function should I use over here? Okay, that gives me either one or negative one, and I am referring to this particular part out of this four activation function,

Speaker 1  2:36:14  
right? Yeah, so just it should be a 10 edge, right? Because 10 H gives you a bound between plus one and negative one. So depending on the input it would, you would always either receive a negative one or plus one, right? So sigmoid when you you use sigmoid when you help buy and hold system, and you use 10 H when you have long and short systems, correct? So yes, everyone who answered 10 H, you guys are correct it, it should be 10 H, okay. Now my last question, if you guys want to create a system that predicts a numeric value, okay, it could be the stock price, stock return, volatility, price, or the volatility and those all those stuff, if if you guys have to build a system that predicts the numerical value, what activation function should you guys use in the output layer, again, in the output layer?

Speaker 1  2:37:17  
Yes, pretty much, right? So you use either ReLU or wiki value, right? Either, either way you can use either because all those numbers are going to be positive numbers, and you would get a in ReLU, you would get this positive numerical value. It won't be converted into any bounds, right? So whenever you want to use the model for regression, everything remains the same. Everything remains the same. Whatever model that you build, everything remains the same. The only thing that changes is just the activation function in the output, in the output layer, okay. If you want to build a classification system for buy and hold, you change the you change the sigma, you change the activation function accordingly. And if you want to build long and short, you change the activation function accordingly. Okay, great, oh yeah. If you, if you even don't use any activation function with the output layer, you still with how to specify the linear one. We shall for the regression part. You still have to specify the linear one, because we need to provide activation function. And when you say no activation function, it means linear one, right? So we need to specify the activation function. Great. Now let's answer a few of the important parts, which is,

Speaker 1  2:38:47  
which is, how do we decide? How do we decide how many activation for us, or how many neurons should we use, and how many hidden layers should we use? Now, there is no single answer to that part. Okay, there is no single answer to that part. Because, depending on what kind of model you are building, most of the time, the way you come up with the answer to like, how many neurons should be there or in each hidden layer and how many such hidden layers should be there is a process of trial and error. Okay, you try to figure out the number of hidden layers and the number of neurons in each of the each of these hidden layers by trial and error. So there is no thumb rules. There is no way how those numbers should be decided. It usually depends on it changes from problem statement to problem statement, how long or how big your data set is. But again, yeah, the idea is you need to have you need to build few models. You need to figure out what works, what doesn't work, which activation function works, where and where not. And then you will have to identify like. Again, what number you should come you should be coming up with? Okay. There is no single way to answer this question that how many neural neurons and how many hidden layers in your model? Okay? And the last part is, whenever we are building these models, whenever we are either regression or the classification hidden layers usually have the value, okay, so this is kind of become the industry practice that people often use ReLU, or leaky ReLU, in the hidden layers, and they keep on changing activation functions over here in the output function. Now that is because the ReLU really allows these models to capture the non linearity quite well. Okay. Now there is no mathematical proof of it, but it is an empirical study that ReLU has shown better performances over 10 H or sigmoid in the hidden layers. Okay, and you use either of the functions over here on the output layer based on what you are building, right? Great. So now let's move on to the next, next part, which is like putting everything together. So we started our discussion with single neuron right, which has three parts, dendrites, nucleus and the action terminal. We tried to replicate it using two parts, the input part, okay. Then we have the Z, or the linear function, which we pass to the activation function, f, over here, and we got the output right, and then we know that in a typical human brain, there exists, like many such neurons. So it makes sense for us to go ahead and combine those neurons like just how it happens in our brain. So we went ahead and we started creating the network of those, those artificial neurons, right? So this is what we did over here, right? And this is where we currently are. So now let's go ahead and let's understand like, how those weights are actually calculated, and how those weights, these networks, are able to come up with those weights, right? So give me next five to seven minutes over here to explain you how those weights are created. And then we will move on to the Jupiter, the Jupiter notebook part. And then we will go ahead build our first model. And once we build our first model, we will go ahead when we will back test the idea. Okay, so please give me next five to seven minutes over here. And guys, it it so appeals that we might spill our lecture by five to seven minutes. Okay, so please be again. I'm just giving you heads up we might spilling, we might spill this class by five to seven minutes. Okay, please pay attention over here, guys see. So what we learned over here? Let me take a color that we all can see. Yeah. So what we learned over here is we have this model, okay? Over here we have this input layer, represented by these orange neurons. Then we have this hidden layer, one represented by blue layer, then we have another hidden layer, okay, where we have four neurons in the first hidden layer, we have three neurons in the second hidden layer, we have four neurons, and then we have output layer, which has only one neuron. So this is our model. This is what our model looks like. We have only two features, x1 x2 and we have one output.

Speaker 1  2:43:46  
Now what happens is, when we start building or when we start training this kind of neuro or this kind of neural networks, the information flows from hidden layer. That's the information flows from the input layer

Speaker 1  2:44:11  
to the output layer. Okay, this is what the info This is how the information flows, when the information flows for the first time, these black arrows that we see, those arrows are the weights. Those arrows are the weights. This neural network, or this algorithm, assigns or initializes these weights randomly. Okay, these weights are assigned randomly, even the neural networks don't know what the actual weights are. Okay, these weights are assigned randomly, and the very first, the very first predictions will be made. So we initialize these weights random. Emily, we have these inputs, x1 x2 right? And we specify the activation functions. Let's say this is really over here, and this is also really over here and over here. Let's say we have sigmoid. Okay, so based on all these parameters, the activation functions, the number of neurons, and the x1 and x2 and the initial the randomly initialized weights, the information passes from input layer to the output layer. And then initially, we will be having our first set of predictions. Okay, we will, we will be having our first set of predictions based on this initialized value. So this activation functions are the ones that we need to specify, the number of the neurons in the number of the hidden layers are the ones that we need to specify. Weights are initialized randomly on its own. Okay? So we provide input, we provide all these parameters, and the weights are used randomly. And based on all this configuration, the data flows from input layer to the output layer, and the first set of predictions are made. Okay? Those first set of predictions are then compared with the actual value. When, when I say, actually? What does this actual value? This? Those actual values are this target vectors. Okay, this target vector, this y. So based on this input data, x1 x2 and all those data, we pass that information over here from this neural network with the initial the randomly initialized weights we made the first set of predictions, we then compare with the true value, okay, once we compare with the true value, like how our predictions deviate, or how our predictions differ from the true value, we compute something known as the loss function. Okay, so now these things happen internally, but internally, what happens is it considers the it, calculates the how predictions are different from the true value, okay, the bigger the differences are between the prediction and the true value, the higher the low score, okay, the bigger the differences are, the higher the loss score, The smaller the differences are the lower the low loss score. So this loss function will compare this prediction and the true value, and it will produce something known as the low score. The higher the low score, the higher the differences between the predictions in the actual values, okay, the lower the difference is, the lower the low score, loss score is, now this loss score that we get from the comparison between the prediction and the true value goes as an input to something known as the optimizer. Okay, now this is the core of this neural network. This optimizer is an algorithm. This optimizer is an algorithm that takes the loss score generated from the differences between the prediction and the true value, and it outputs the new set of weights. Okay, it outputs the new set of weights so it knows what initial weights it go it created based on which the predictions are being made, which which then compared with the true values and the low scores. Is generated based on the low score. It will then go ahead and it will try to come up with a new set of all these weights. Okay, so this algorithm, the optimizer, that, as we say, is the core of the neural networks, right?

Speaker 1  2:48:47  
This optimizer will then update the weights. Okay, it will then update the weights, and again, the same process gets repeated again with the new set of weights. The information flows from the input layer to the output layer. Predictions will be made. It will be compared with the true value. And again, the low score will be calculated based on the updated new weights. If the low score increased based on the updated weights, if the low score increased, the optimizer gets to know that, okay, it has to do what it it has to do exactly the opposite of what it it did in the previous pass. Okay. Else, if it knows that the with the updated set of weights, if the loss decreased, okay? If the loss decreased, then it knows what to do, and it will continue in the in that direction. And it will again go ahead, and it will again calibrate the weights, it will and it will produce the new set of calibrated weights, right? So what is happening is, with each pass, with each iteration, the optimizer gets the low score, it updates the weights, and with new set of weights each time the information flows from the. Input layer to the output layer. So that is known as the forward propagation, okay. And once the once the predictions are made, we go back, we compare predictions with the actual value, we generate the rows, and that loss is then provided back to the optimizer, and the new set of weights are created, and that pass is known as the backward propagation. Okay, so, in a way, neural networks updates the weight in iterations. Okay, it will never come up with the same set of iterator it will it will never come with the weights in the first pass. It will keep on updating the weights, and it will see like how the differences between the predictions and the true value increases or decreases. And then it will basically make the it will calibrate the weights. Okay, so this process keeps on continue. We will keep on continue until the loss is decreased and the optimizer could not decrease the loss after certain extent, okay? Or if we specify that, okay, you need to update weights only for 100 iterations or whatever, right? So this is how the neural network learns, and this is how the weights are learned and achieved, okay, so the neural networks, in principle, works very in a very simple way. It takes a set of weights, it makes the predictions, it compares with the actual value, and then it we give these loss between the predictions in the true value to the optimizer, and it will give us a new set of weights. Okay, so in literature, the mostly the focus would be on this optimizer, right, which is really sophisticated set of mathematical tools or framework as such, right? But as we discussed that we are not going to step into those kind of stuff in this class. But if anyone know, if anyone wants to know, like how it works, and what it works and what it is, and again, those who come from the data sense background. They know, like this optimizer is known as the gradient descent, and the gradient descent is the one that makes the neural networks important. Okay, so this is what it is. Let me see if there are any questions, and then I will go ahead and I will, then we will go to the Python notebook. Okay, great. Are neurons same in each in each hidden layer? No. So, as we say right over here, the first hidden layer has three neurons, and the second hidden layer has got four neurons.

Speaker 1  2:52:47  
What one means in the diagram, these are the bias. Okay, these are the bias. So in your statistics class, you whenever you build the regression for function, right? So you would have always seen the regression function is having small e over here. So this e is basically the error part, okay, also known as the bias. So over here, this, this one represents the bias how many iterations are conducted. That is, that depends on like, how fast the low score is decreased, or we could also mention how many iterations to go through. Yeah. Zubin, so one is basically the bias when you when optimizer gives weights, will it give weights for each layer of the neurons or to each nodes? It will give for each node, okay, the new the new set of weights that we are going to get will be for literally each neuron. Okay, so over here we have eight neurons in total, right? Three, three in the first hidden layer, four in the second hidden layer, and one in the output layer. So we are going to get a neuro each new weight for all these eight neurons every time. Okay? Now, if you see so there is a there is also formula to decide how many weights do we get every time based on the comparison of these number of neurons. Okay. Any questions? Anyone else, any other any any other questions, anyone, if not, we can go to the part or like, okay, the Jupiter part and we see how it how we can go ahead and we can implement it in Jupiter. Okay, so activation, first we discuss this part. Yeah, this is the visualizer we'll come to that this part, if necessary, is we'll skip this part. Okay, great. So over here we are again going to build a classification model. Okay, and this time we are going to build the long shot model that is like the model, instead of giving. It the values whether the stock is going to go up or down, go up or not, we are going to predict whether the stock is going to go up or down, when I say up or down, whenever it is going to go up, the predictions will be one, okay, which is for up and negative one, whenever the stock is going to go down, right, great. So this is what we are going to do. We are going to build a classification system that will see that will give us these two predictions. Okay, so to begin with, I'm going to import all the necessary libraries. Now these are the set of libraries that you guys already aware of. Okay, so these are the libraries. Instead of using the same data set, this time, I'm going to use the JPY INR currency pair, and I am going to download it from Yahoo Finance for the period of 2011 to 2018 Okay, so this is the currency pair that we are going to work with. And over here we have 2000 plus observations across open, high, low, close, value. Okay, so volume would be zero because we are working with the spot currency pair. So of course, the volume is going to be zero over here, right next, what we are going to do is we are going to build features now. These are the same set of features that we already know, which captures the volatility price, trend, momentum and intraday moment. Okay, so I'm going to use the same set of features, but in addition to the those set of features I'm this time, I'm also going to add a few more technical indicators. And to build those technical indicators, I'm going to use technical taip library to calculate those those indicators. Now I'm going to build three indicators, in particular, Bollinger Bands, moving average, convergence, divergence, MACD and parabolic stop and reverse. So usually bollinger bands and parabolic stop and reverse are known as the main, reverting, main rewarding indicators. And MACD is useful to filter out whether there is trend or not. So I'm going to use this library, taip to calculate these indicators. And once I do, this is what my features list are. Okay? So in addition to whatever standard features that we were using until now, we this time, we have a few more additional features.

Speaker 1  2:57:49  
And by doing so, we incorporated few Nan values. So let us go ahead and let us drop the null values. And over here, see, I am dropping the rows, not the columns. Okay, so we don't have x is equal to one. Over here we are dropping the rows the observations, right? And, yeah, this is my this is how my data set looks like. Great. These are just features. Okay, these are just features. Now I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to build my target vector. See. So by this this time, the target vector is different. Instead of using the returns shift minus one and whether it is greater than zero or one, I am simply using whether the next day's close price is greater than today's close price or not. Okay, if the next day is close price, if the next day is close price is greater than today's close price, I say that the stock went up. Else the stock went down, okay, plus plus one, negative one. So this is what my target vector. Target vector looks like. So over here I have, whenever I have minus one, it simply means that the stock went down the next day. Okay, so this minus one shows the direction for the next day. Okay, great. So this is what my data set now looks like. So if we want to visualize the data set, this is my data set looks like. These are the features and this is my target. Okay, great. Let me go ahead and let me include it. Let me go ahead and let me split my data set into a training and testing data sets. And for each of those training and testing data sets, I will be having the features part and the vectors are in the target part, right? So x train is my features of the training X test is my features of the testing data set. Y train is my is my target of the training data set, and y test is my. Target of the testing data set. Okay, so I am going to keep 20% as the training as the testing size, and going to use 80% is my training data set. And these are my shapes of the those four data sets right now, if we pay attention to this particular part, see again over here we are building the linear equation right now. Does it click? Anything like this linear equation has is looks very similar to linear regression. The way the linear regression formula looks like this linear function also looks similar. In fact, they are the same, okay? And as we already know, that whenever we work with any algorithms which works either on the either using regression or either using distances, we need to scale our data. If we don't scale our data, then undue importance is will be given to different or unknown features, right? So over here as well, we need to scale our data, and we are going to use our old friend, standard scalar, okay, to scale our features. So first I'm going to scale my training data set, and then I'm going to use the mean and the standard deviation from the training data set to fit on the or to transform on the testing data set. Right? So this is what I do over here, to scale my data set, and this is how it looks like. So we see that there are like the main value of all features are zero and the standard deviation is one great. Now, when it comes to building the neural networks, there are a bunch of libraries available out there. There are a bunch of Python libraries available out there which could be used to build the neural networks. Okay, however, as we are comfortable over here with the SK learn library, and we know the syntax of the SK learn library, we are going to stick with it only. But there are many more advanced and powerful libraries out there, Keras, TensorFlow, pytorch and whatnot. But regardless, all the concepts that we have discussed over here remains the same. It's just that the syntax is different, and the way this layers are added, the ways these activation functions are added, they differ in like in parts and in bits and parts, okay, but the

Speaker 1  3:02:43  
whatever concepts that we have discussed, they remain one in the same. Okay. So over here, we are going to go ahead and we import the MLP classifier. MLP stands for multi layer, perceptron classifier. Okay, so P stands for perceptron, which is like a single neuron, and ml stands for multi layer. So we are going to import SQL, like MP classifier, from SQL under neural network. And what I'm going to do over here is very simple. I'm going to do, I'm going to build a neural network. Okay with one hidden layer, okay, with one hidden layer, and that one hidden layer has five neurons in it, that one hidden layer has five neurons in it. So this is how I specify the hidden layer size. Okay, I am saying that, okay. You need to iterate through the whole neural network maximum for 300 times to update the weights. Right then, I am saying that you need to use relief activation function. You need to use relief activation function for the hidden layer right. Next, I'm saying you need to use the Adam solver. Now, this Adam is nothing but the name of this optimizer algorithm. Okay, is nothing but the name of this optimizer algorithm. So I am saying that you need to use the Adam optimizer to resolve the weights or to calibrate the weights. Then all I'm saying is like you need to, again, I'm setting the algorithm, and I'm saying that you don't need to shuffle the records to train the data, and verbose equals to truth. I just want to see the output. Once I define it, I can go ahead and I can train my neural network. Okay, so let me do that, and let me see how it goes. Okay, so over here, it started with first iteration. The loss is 82% it it went and it the iteration 20, the loss decrease from 82% to 69% over here, and likewise, it. And for all those iterations, and what we see is like it went on and on, on and on, on and on, on and on and again at iteration 121 Okay, iteration 121 it stopped, although we asked it to go, to go until 300 iterations, it stopped at iteration 121 and what? What it is telling us. It is telling us that for the last 10 iterations, for the last 10 iterations, the loss did not improve by this number, okay, the laws did not improve at all. And hence, I am not going to trade. I am not going to train further. I am not going to optimize weights further, I'm going to stop here. It stopped because for the past 10 iterations, the no matter what it did, how it tried to calibrate those weights, weights did not improve, okay? And hence it's stopped. Now if I want to increase the number of neural net to other hidden layers, all I can do is I can provide a comma separated list over here, and it would be like this, okay, so in the first hidden layer, it will have five neurons in the four in the second hidden layer, it will help four neurons. And likewise, let me do this later. Let me just explain it this way, and then I will go ahead and increase the number of hidden layers. Okay, so when I do this, when I increase the number of hidden layers, when I keep the number of hidden layer, 2125, with five, okay, my neural network would look something like this. So

Speaker 1  3:06:53  
Hmm, okay, my bad, yeah, my neural network would look like this. Okay, so I have this green shows my input layer, my blue, so shows the hidden layer, and there would be only one neuron in the output layer. Okay, so this is how it it looks like. And if we see there are just, like, just too many weights for each of these inputs that goes to each of the neurons, right? And if we want to check what those new or what those weights are once the model is trained, we can get it checked by using get parents method. So let, let me first check the number of layers. So there are three, number three layers, because one is input hidden and the output layer, and these are the model parameters that we are used to train our model. Okay, if we want to check the number of if you want to check the weights between my input layer and the hidden layer, I can use the coefficient method. It's not the method is the attribute. I can use the coefficient underscore attribute, and it will show me all the weights. Okay, so there are for each input, there are five weights, right? Because there are five neurons in the hidden layer. So we see that there are these are like, this is a set of five, right? So there are like for each input, x1 x2 x3 there are going to be five weights going to each neuron, and how many so, so, how many such subsets would be there as many as number of features? Okay, then I can go ahead and I can check the number of biases, okay, so the the initial ones that we did, so these are the bias numbers. Okay, we initialize, we initialize it with one, and it then changes based on the input. That's okay. And how do we check the weights between the hidden layer and the output layer? Okay, how do we check these weights. So these weights are being checked using model coefficient one. Okay, so these are the weights, and this is the bias. Great. The final thing that we are interested is in the model accuracy on the training data is 57% and on the training testing data, it's 53% right. So again, as we incorporated the close, the accuracy against dropped, okay, and if you want to check the predicted data, so this is what my predictions look like. Whenever it says negative one, it means the stroke is going to go down. Whenever it says one, it means the stock is going to go up. Okay, so this is how we get data predicted. Okay, before I go ahead and before I increase the number of hidden layers, let me quickly go ahead and let me quickly check the precision and recall. So, yeah. They are 55 53% respectively. We are expected because the accuracy is also in the similar range. But now let me go ahead and let me back test my predictions. So if we if we see, we downloaded our data from 2011 to 2018 Okay, so we test. We built our model on data from 2011 to 2018 so let us go ahead and let us use this trained model to back test from 2019 to rest of the period, right? So I am defining this back test function over here. It simply does nothing. It simply creates all those features for the out of simple data. Okay, so I am providing two inputs over here, arguments, DF, this is the out of simple data, and model. Is the trained model. Okay, so I am creating all the features again for the out of simple data. These are my features, the normal ones in the technical indicators, then I am scaling those things. See this time, I am not creating a new scale or scalar object. I'm using the one that I

Speaker 1  3:11:13  
that I used in my trade while training the model. And this is important, I can I cannot do scaling over here, if I do, I if I create new object of the scaler over here, I would be inducing the Look Ahead buyers. I cannot do that part. Okay, so once I, once I have scaled my data, I am directly going ahead and directly predicting it. I am not training my model again, because I don't need to write because I already have the trained model over here with me. Over here with me, I'm simply going and using the model to predict on the out of sample data, right? And whatever the simple data that on whatever data that I have predicted, I am storing it into predict predicted column of the data data frame, and then I am using the concepts from the DMP one and two classes to back test my strategy. Okay, my strategy returns are going to be returns times signal, and then I'm simply using the cumulative sum. Okay, great. So let me go ahead and let me run this function from 2019 to end of 2025 okay, now which is my out of sample data. Earlier, we trained our model from 2011 to 2018 and I'm now using the trained model on 2019 to 2025 so if I do that, this is what my back testing looks like. So buy and hold returns, usually because, because it's a currency product, it stays quite flat. But my returns are quite something to be looked at, and this is what it looks like right now. It might happen that it might happen that it the model that you use might not work on a single instrument that you might be back testing. It usually these kind of neural networks or this kind of machine learning model works at a portfolio level quite well, rather than on a individual instrument level. So whenever you build model, build model in a generalized way, build model such that you could, you could apply the model to multiple instruments and then try to predict on the portfolio level rather than on a single instrument level. Okay, and with that, you will be able to see, like, some results. Okay, so this is what I had for you in the store for neural networks. I'm still here. I will take questions now. But again, the class is official. Yoga is, is there anything if you need to ask, you can stay and like you are like, I will be answering your questions. But yeah, how to code sigmoid function in buy and exit strategy. Sorry, I did not get your question. Could you please elaborate like when you say, how to code sigmoid function in buy an exit strategy? What do you exactly mean? JPY INR is the less liquid compared to USD INR? Yeah, it could be. So we are again, I don't deny that part it could be. But the question I hear, we back test the model, right? So you can test the model. As you can see over here, I keep on changing this, para these instruments from batch to batch. Early. I used to use Euro, USD, then somewhere over here, I believe I used to use JPY, USD, yeah, sorry. GBP, Euro, I keep on changing these instruments. So again, yeah, it's up to us, what we what model we want to build, how and why the weights are negative. It could be right money. So it could happen that whenever we receive some information and. We might want to provide the negative importance to to that information. So it could happen that if I get so it's like, it is akin to bad news for us, right? So if someone gives me the like, some some news, I would say that news is going to be like negative effect. So negative weights usually can be thought of as, like bad news or on those sides, right? So weights could be anything, right? It could be negative, positive. It could be anything. It could be zero, even when, when the weights are zero, it simply means that it they are not important, okay, what is DMP? DMP is the back testing club module right in which you learnt strategy, strategy back testing and whatnot. Why do we scale fit, transform in out of simple data, we don't do fit transform in out of simple data. Do we

Speaker 1  3:16:07  
oh, yeah, ah, that's true. It should be on the Transform. Thanks. Thanks. Manikan, then yeah, it should be on the Transform. That's true. Why is it better working on a portfolio level than on a single titles? The reason is, this kind of models actually require really huge amount of data to learn patterns. Okay? And when you when you pro, when you combine data from all those multiple constituents in a single portfolio, and you train the model on that part, the model really shines learning, or really learns well from patterns, from the multiple data, okay? And as a result, you usually get to see results on the portfolio level rather than the single instrument level. So if we, if we date back to training data of like, again, we don't have a data greater than like, 60 years of, yeah, not even 60 years. We are in 2026 like, the earliest data that we usually get from for the US markets, is, is from, I believe, 1950s the decent level of data we can get the daily level of data since 1783 right? Sorry, yeah, not 7083 1818 73 we do have daily data available from 1873 on some vendors that are vendors websites, but again, that is daily data. So the daily data for a century is also not enough for this kind of neural networks. But when you combine intraday data for over like 5060, 100 instruments, and you train it starts showing its effect. That's the idea. How would you go about using this on a portfolio? We have to get all the features for all the portfolio and then apply entire deep learning. Yeah, of course. So yeah, of course. That would be, that would be tedious, Jesse, but that's the that's the core, that's the idea. It would be tedious. It so most of the time that you guys would be spending would be on preparing the data set. Let's say, if you have, like, 500 instruments, you would be preparing the features for all those 500 instruments. Then you would be scaling them for each individual data, for each individual instrument, and then you would be combining the data. And if, if you are working on, say, intraday database, then you would be spending time on imputing the null data, the name data sets that the name values or you would be interpolating or extrapolating whatever right? And so again, in any data science project, you would be spending a significant amount of time in preparing data. And then you would be spending, like your 30, 40% time in creating models or optimizing those models. But, yeah, that's true. That is how it is.

Speaker 1  3:19:11  
Does standardization alter portfolio weights? Yeah, of course it will. Can I use this commodity futures? People do use it across in the across asset classes. What's the minimum amount of data where applying deep learning starts to make sense? At least you need to have few 100,000 rows. At least you need to have 100, few 1000 rows. If you, if you, if your data set has only few hundreds of, few 1000s of rows, the model might look occasion, on the on the on the on the on the outside, but it might not be well, generalized enough. Do you have any idea about how these candles will move up and down and how they are formulated? If we do, we all would be very wealthy, and we would, we won't be doing this stuff, right. So again, one of the one of the very, one of the most challenging tasks that I find in this entire industry is to basically come up with this ideation of this. How can this move up and down? Right? So, rather, so I'm seeing this shift in the how this machine learning is being used in the industry, from predicting the directions to predicting other variables, like volatility of volatility, or I'd say the the risk analysis okay, like whether the stock, whether the volatility of the stock is going to be increased or decreased, So, rather than whether the distribution of the long, long signals versus short signals are going to change or not. So when machine learning started momentum, the quant professional start like where, applying these stuff to to predict detections, to predict the movements and whatnot. But now the now, the shift is gradually moving toward the derivatives of derivatives, right? Basically the distribution of the orders, the distribution of the trading signals, the instead of the people predicting the prices, now, they are predicting the size of the position, size of the bet that they take. Okay, they are predicting whether they they they need to take the trade or not, and those kind of stuff. It is still evolving just as how the machine learning is evolving in all other fields. But what I am seeing is like people are starting to get more comfortable on those sides, and people are starting to people have started applying machine learning at a portfolio level, rather than at the individual titles, like which people used to do earlier. Now they moved on to the portfolio level, where we have more data, where we have more insights, and as a result, these algorithms are able to apply quite well. Yeah, true? Is it stop loss seen by the big traders? Yeah, of course. So that is why, right? So, that is what I meant to say. So when you apply it on a single title, you could see like bigger drawdowns, but when you apply it on portfolio levels, because of the diversification, those drawdowns could also be contained. So now ML is used for risk management. It earlier also people used to use for risk management, but people have now shifted their focus. Yes, true. Whenever we put stop losses, it come touches into stop loss. It is, is it seen by bite? Yeah. Oh, so you are asking from the market microstructures part, usually no, because they both have different order books. Madhu, Sudan, no. So when you when people put stop losses, they don't go in the normal order book. They go into different order book. So that is usually not seen by the hfts No, or the big theirs, no. All right. Great. Thank you so much, guys for attending this class. I hope you guys got quite good amount of learning. I will see you for the last class in the few weeks time. Alright, until then, take care. Bye bye, and do leave your feedback. I'll see you in the next few weeks time. Bye, bye.

