Speaker 1  0:09  
Hi everyone, good evening. Let's, let's discuss the sixth part of options trading, which is creating an options back tested. Just give me one second, let me go full screen. Can you guys confirm if I'm audible clearly, and my screen is visible as well? You can just type it out in the chat. Thanks, even. Thanks, Max. Thanks for the confirmation, Monica. And then Kisha, in the last class, we discussed how do you handle trading during expiration. What if you want to go read the exercise? Essentially, we discussed many things that drive to a case study, where we planned it, right, and executed, and we did the post-shared analysis, but this particular lecture OTS six is completely different from what we have so far, so something is getting yes, so this OTS six is going to be a bit different from what we have been, what we had in last five lectures, because this is completely a discussion on back testing, and this is a new session we've been taking from previous batch, I guess, since there was lots of questions on how to create an options back tester and on how to get the data, and one of the major important parts of options back to stage to input clean data, because garbage in garbage out, right? If we have a bad data put into any kind of a back tester, contrast its results. So, for that reason, this lecture is going to be a bit different. We are not going to discuss any theory, maybe 10% of the theory, but mostly I'll just take you through the Python notebooks we have, which you can also access on elements, and I'll all these notebooks are created by me. So I'll explain you the thought process behind the approach we have taken. See, these notebooks we could have easily given you and asked you to go through it, right? But the reason for this lecture is to let you understand how you need to think when creating any back tester, but especially options back tester, which is one of the most complicated assets to create a back test for. So, we'll have, we'll start this with a bit of a discussion on back testing. Then, when it comes to options back testing, what are all the key steps that we're going to spend some time on? Then we'll see how to structure an options back tester, and we'll start building one. And first, I will just explain you a back tester that I've created for a long call option, an egg option, because once you, if you're able to structure out a back tester for a single option strategy, then you can definitely extend that for a multi-leg strategy, like a straddle, triangle, etc. So that's how we're going to take this ahead. This lecture is going to be a bit shorter than others, because I know the previous lectures I've taken went for three or 15 minutes, three and a half, etc. but this one is going to be a bit shorter, so yeah. Any doubts you have, you can just type it out, just like in the previous sessions. So let's start with the overview of back testing first. So essentially, I know almost all of you know what a back test is, right? This is just to understand if you have a strategy in hand, how it would have worked in the historical data. That's the simple question we have. If the same strategy we had known in the past and you deployed it, how it would have worked, that's the answer we are going to get from back test, but there is more to back test. See, back test is not just to know how much profit you got in the past or how much profit the strategy had given on the historical data. It's also about understanding few nuances of patterns in the behavior of a strategy. That's that's what we are going to do for option strategy also today, and the most important thing is there are different types of factors.

Speaker 1  4:27  
I'm going to discuss that also, but our aim is to kind of simulate real world scenarios, because if you don't want to simulate real world scenarios but still want to know what is the profit and loss, there are many ways to do it, but we will take steps in such a way that it's almost like you are trading today, like what are all the steps you take. We will make the algorithm also to do to make the same steps, so that we get proper back to results, and we have our metrics, but I'm going to explain you few more things beyond. On what you see on screen, and then we are going to discuss what you do post back to also, so all these things are there, but in this lecture I'm thinking I'll go beyond what we have planned for this lecture also, so that it's we can give a complete nice round off to all the things you learned in options lecture so far, but one important thing I want to tell you before we move ahead with back test is, see, there are different ways to back test. Right now, we are going to back test the strategies which you already know, like a long call or a long straddle triangle, etc. But generally people back test and war fit their parameters. For example, anybody who started trading would have started with a moving average crossover, because that's the easiest one to understand intuitively. And back test also, like a simple one, being 50 day crossover with 200 day crossover, like 100 day moving average and 50 day moving average, where 50 day, 50 day moving average is about 100 day, people go long, but there are people who try different combinations, like they might try 90 versus 10, like or 80 versus 40, etc, and they try to do this to get an optimal combination of long and short moving average, so that they can get maximum out of it, but that is a wrong way to back test, because you can't over fit your parameters to the historical data, because there is no guarantee the market is going to be same as historical data, right? But there is a nuanced way to do it, generally, how you do it, all these things we're going to discuss. So, let's, let's kind of focus on how to back test options. What are all the key steps? So, from here it's going to be very general. You can actually, you can be very relaxed in this class. You do, you will not have anything new to learn, learn, but it is all about putting what you already know into practice, and so you can, you can be relaxed. Let's try to jam some ideas also, because this, if you see the key steps, I'm going to explain. This is common for any back test, but I have kind of divided this and segregated this into multiple steps, because there are many nuances, options data will come with. For example, if you are back testing, the very first thing is, of course, you need data, isn't it? So, first you need to collect the data, but when I say collect the data, it's not just options data, you should also have the underlying data, I'll give you an example. If I have a long call option on Apple, APL symbol, let's say I have a long call option on Apple, just with the options data, I can't back test it, because, depending on where my underlying price is, I would de-mark the options contract as at the money in the money out of the money, etc. Also, when I'm exiting, I only depending on where the market is, I know where my P and L is, etc. So all these things will actually depend on where the underlying prices. For that very reason, when I'm collecting data, I will collect the options data, and also the underlying data as well. Now, if any of you had already back tested stocks, I know most of the times in any batch, at least 20 to 30% of the people already would have created their back testers for their trading, or maybe they would have seen somebody else create, right, but when it comes to options, it's actually very important to understand the data you have in your hand, and then how to clean it.

Speaker 1  8:51  
In this lecture, I've taken the most unorganized in a way, the data we are going to see today is not at all organized in an optimal way, and not at all cleaned. Also, I intentionally took that, because even in future, if you have an unstructured data after this class, the things you learn today is going to help you to kind of structure it, because it's actually very difficult to deal with options data, unless you really, really know what you're dealing with. So, I'm going, I've listed down all the steps very clearly, and Python in Python Notebook, also that we are going to see. So the second key step is to structure your data, but don't just stop at structuring your data, clean the data. Now the third 1/3, important one is to see, for example, in this lecture we are going to deal with 2 million rows of data, but every single time dealing with 2 million rows of data, and mind you, that is just one year of worth of data. One year of data was 2 million rows for me, and I don't want to do all my calculation on those 2 million rows. Right, I need to pick. The data that I am interested in, for example, if I am dealing with weekly options, all the data I have, first I need to just take out the weekly options and move ahead, so that my processes will be faster and it would be clear for me when I'm practitioning. So that's the third step, and the next one would be, again, you need to deal with the liquid contracts, like when I'm back testing, I want to back test on a contract which doesn't have liquidity, because in back test it works, right? If I write a quote saying buy this contract, it just tells you, yeah, I bought the contract and show you profit and loss, but when you go to live trading in practice, if you don't have liquidity, what's the point of putting on all effort and time to back test, right? So we're going to discuss how to filter them. Also, that is also an important step. Then comes the main part, which is simulating real trying trade scenarios. So that is the heart of this lecture, and the main part of the code. Also, we're going to see, but we don't just stop there. We're going to discuss different ways to understand the performance. See, I know everybody is used to have key performance metrics like cumulative return, sharp ratio, etc. but I personally feel beyond the metrics, you need to kind of understand the performance visually, so that's why I try to create few visual outputs also for you guys to understand the behavior of the options contract. I'm going to show you how to create to find patterns, also when you see it visually. So, these are the six steps we are going to discuss in next couple of hours. This, this is the, this is what we are going to do in this lecture. So, just till I start with step one, just to elaborate it further. You heard many things in our past three, four lectures, like implied volatility, options, Greeks, strike price, spot price, etc. And we have seen we have seen the options slider. Also, we have seen options ladder, but let's come back to basics again. So, if you are working with underlying data, it's simple. See, right now, let's take SMP find it index data, so let's take this example for the entire lecture. So, if you're dealing with, let's say, price date of SMP find it, it's very simple. Let's pick a date, as you can see on screen, we picked January 4 of 2023 How many data points you would have for that date? Mostly you would have five data points. This, this is raw data, right? This is the most fundamentally raw data you would get for S and p5 100 for that day where the market opened, what high it reached, what low it reached, it's close along with the volume if it is futures with it. This is futures information, so in such case it's very simple for you. If you want to create a back tester using it, you can use it, maybe for removing average crossover.

Speaker 1  13:10  
You can just use close price and do it, but when it comes to options, this is how the data looks like. See, this is for the same date, Jan fourth, 2023 Previously we got only one row and five columns. Right now we got 7549 rows with 29 columns. What does it indicate is when you're dealing with options for underlying price is easy for me, it's just a single data point, but when it comes to options, I have call options, I have put options, I have different options contracted, different strike prices, all these combinations I have for every single expiry, I have it for a weekly expiry, daily expiry, monthly, yearly, etc. etc. So, for that very reason, for a single day, if you had to pick a data for underlying, it's just a probably four or five data points for you, but if it is for options, you get this much of options data, and so this is this is what we are going to discuss. We are not going to take any step backs. We are going to take as much data as we have, and then see how we are going to deal with that problem, because that's what happens in real life. So, it's better when you're learning. Also, we will just deal with difficult situations only, not the simple ones. Yes. Yes, yeah, so the whole reason why you have multiple rows and multiple columns is one thing, you have multiple expirys and multiple share prices, and the second thing, beyond your options price, you have options Greeks and also other. Metrics like what is expiry date, and what, how many days till expiry, etc. Now, how do we get this data? That's the very first question we get. Right, where do we collect the data from, and how do we get the data? I don't want to endorse any brokers, etc. but in general, anybody, any retail trader, if you need options data, a simpler way to get it is to just go to your broker, because why I keep on getting this. I'm sorry, I'm continuously getting this ad. Let me just push it here. Yes, so as I was saying, the simpler way to a straightforward way to get data is through your broker. If it is in India, there are many famous brokers who started providing free historical data also. And if it is, if you are in US, there are 10s of brokers that are providing data through their APIs. Either you can go and put the root of APIs, or there are also websites that are going to give you data in a downloadable format. There are free data providers, there are paid data providers. In this lecture, we are going to deal with a data provider who lets you download the data, and that's a free data. So, the data provider is options dx, I'm going to show you how. So this is the website from which we got the data, options dx, free storable options trading data. You can just go to the website, go to shop now, and you can select which one you want. For example, SPX options chain, and this is where it is. See, you can just select an year and code the frequency of data. For example, there are there is data from 2010 so I picked 2023 and see this 30 days, 15 day, five minute frequency, they are not free, but if you go for end of the day data, essentially we need end of the day data, so for that it is free, you just add to cart and then log into your account, and you can download from there, so it's as simple as that, and I'll just show you how the data looks like, so this, this is how the data looks like. I've downloaded it for the year 2023 so it will download you in the form of zip files, as you could see, 2023 quarter one, quarter two, quarter three, quarter four. It gave me four zip files for the data of SPX options end of the day frequency for 2023 and if I go in, it's in the form of a text file. I don't even, I don't think it's that easy to access.

Speaker 1  17:54  
Let me just extract one and show you how unorganized the data would be, but I'm going to show you how to organize this, but let me show you how the data looks like. See, this is how the data looks like. As you can see, it's actually, it's a vast amount of data, and it's in the form of a text file, and you see there are many columns, and then there is huge amount of data, but I'm going to tell you how to clearly organize this. So, yes, so let's go back. So, when there is a question of how you get the data, as I said, you can get it from your broker. That's that's a quick and easy way to get it, but here we got it from our free source, which is options dx, so this is where we are going to start. We the text files you have seen for 2023 If you, I've done it for 10 years of data, but then for this lecture I got one year of data, because this particular notebook initially, when you're cleaning the data, it's going to take lots of time, so I don't want to waste time in our class just waiting for a single cell to run. For that very reason, I've limited it to one year. Even one year would take time. I get seven eight minutes at least to run it, but I'm going to, yeah, let's just see how it works. So now let's focus only on the step one. Our whole objective is you're seeing and text file, right? The text file you're seeing here. I'll tell you how this data is. There are there are multiple zip files. Each zip file belongs to single quarter, and each quarter has three text files. Essentially, each text file represent one month of data, and you have 12 text files. So now our whole objective is to extract these 12 text files, combine them into a single entity, a single data frame, and then we can go. Didn't work with it, because like with text, well, how can we work right? Because when we are coding, we would want everything to be in a data frame, so that we can do our pandas calculations. So this is our first objective. I'm going to navigate to a piece of code that you already have access to, that is.. let me just go here. Yes, the very first notebook. You have three notebooks that are given to you. You have access to all these three notebooks in your elements. The first one being SPX options data downloading and processing. This is a huge chunk of this lecture, because you need to know how to clean the data. And then we discuss how to create a back tester, so just to give a bit of a background, the data we have is in a zip file format, especially it's in a format of dot 7z So now we are going to unzip this. All we don't do anything manual, we do everything programmatically, we unzip the data and then we read the text files, and we compile everything into a single data frame. That's what we are going to do as step one. So, if, when you're trying to run this particular notebook, there are few things you need to do. In my system, I have this particular Python library already installed, but for you, I'm not sure how many of you has this in your system, so just unzip this, so you just need to uncomment this single line, and then run this cell, so that it will install Pi seven zero library for you. This library is used to unzip the zip files we have, so we are going to do this, we are going to first set up the dependencies, which I've already done in my system, just need to run this cell, and then basically we need to let the code identify where our zip files are and show you how, and after that it should unzip those zip files and read it is a text file. It should read it as a text. If it is a CSV, it should read it as a CSV. I know few data providers directly gives you CSVs in a zip file.

Speaker 1  22:13  
That's why I wrote the code in such a way that, irrespective of whether it is a text or CSV, the code would work automatically. And after that, it should read each file into a data frame and creates a list for you, a list of data frames, and finally we will create a single data frame with all options data, that's our objective. So, when you're running this particular data, once you download the zip file. Once you download your content from LMS, maybe after this lecture, change this path. This is the path in which my data is example, my data is here. So I gave that path for you. The path would be different. You just need to give two parts. The first part is where your zip file is? He, I have my data folder. I just need to give the location of this data folder. I just need to copy from here. So, first tell the code where the zip file is located in here. My zip files are here, so I just give this link, this particular path. The second link, or the second path, is where do you want the extracted data to be stored in I want my extracted data to be stored in a call in a folder called extracted so I'll just give this particular location you can give any location it's just that I kept it structured so that's pretty much it only these two things you need to configure nothing else in the entire code, you need to change only these two configurations. The first one is to install this particular library, and the second one is to give you the relevant parts in your local system. That's it. And once you do it, I'll just give a quick overview of what this code does. So, first it will check whether that particular folder exists or not, whatever paths you're given, and once that is done, it's going to create a list of zip files. For example, here we have four zip files, as you could see, compressed files, right? We have four zip files in this folder, each one belongs to a single quarter of 2020 so it's going to create a list of zip files, and then it will extract each zip file. That's what it's going to do. And once it is extracted, irrespective of whether it is a text file or csv file, it's going to read it, read that particular text file. If you remember, we have text files like this isn't it. So, anytime you get a data in the form of text file, these are what you see. First few part of the text file would be the column names, and then you have the entire data. So, what our code does, it just reads the e. Each of the text file and just put it in a data frame, that's essentially what it does. So, if you run this, this is this what the output is. So, I just ran it like an hour ago, but it's going to take time. So, I'm just showing you, like in this particular class, we were just going to see the results, because running this will take lots of time. And so, essentially, when you run this, this is output you get. It reads each text file. We have 12 text files in four folders, so it's going to reach each of it, and then it's going to merge everything into a single data frame, which is options data underscore raw. So this is how the data frame looks like there. I know it takes time to run these cells, that's why I don't, but yeah, fine, let it let it run, yeah. So this is how the data frame looks like, as you could see, there are 2 million rows of data, and let's see what we have, maybe let's spend some time. They have something called Unix time and read time code data. There are many, many columns, right? There are extremely large amount of columns, to be specific. There are 33 columns. They have, so let's see what they are. This exactly, why I added this. Whenever you have data, just call in dot describe, so it's going to show you what it is. So it has 2 million, like for example, in this, but these are the columns you have in this particular column.

Speaker 1  26:37  
What is the information in this particular column? It just tells you how many, how many data points are there in this column. What is the mean, minimum, maximum, etc. Just to get a quick way of over the data, is for example code time hours, it's just telling you what is the R like at what time this data is sourced, and again it is giving you underlying information, underlying contract information. See, all these columns are not needed. I'm just showing you what is there in the raw data. We are going to take some decisions and remove someday columns also, which we don't need. But before that, we are just saying, what are all the things that we have, right? Like expire Unix. What is the expiry date in Unix format, so we are going to change it into our regular timestamp format. Days to expiry, how many days are there for expiry? What is a strike? How far is the strike, and how far is the strike in terms of percentage? There are many data points. It is here, we don't have any control, right? Whatever data provider gives, we need to receive it, but now we carefully see how this data is okay. We understand what we have in our hand. For that, you can use dot info. This particular method will give you an output like this. It gives you list of all the columns with column names. So now it is very clear for me here. I know there are 33 columns, right? It starts with quote unique time, and it ends with strike distance percentage. Not only that, it is also giving me what data type this particular column belongs to. For example, as as per the data we received, this particular unique time code time, that means when the data was taken, is in the form of integer. Then there is quote read time in the form of an object, date is in the form of an object, time is in the form of float, which actually doesn't make sense. Ideally, time should be in the form of a timestamp, right? It should be a date format or a time format, all these things, for example, date is a form of an object, so we are going to kind of clean these things. This is what I mean when I say clean the data, because when you're dealing with Python, the data types should be very specific. If it is a date, it should be in a date time format. It shouldn't be in a float format or a int format, right? So that's if I had to observe something here. One thing my observation is there are too many columns, which I don't need. Why do I need expiry uniques and expiry date? I mean, why do you need time stamp of expiry? Right, I just need expiry date, and there are many things that we don't need. There is quote unique time, quote read time. So, let's see what these columns are, and then remove what we don't need. But at a very basic level, this gives me information. There are 33 columns of mixed data types. So now my objective is to select the columns I need, and for the columns are selected, clear this particular data type, like I should know what data type each column should column should have, and then I should change it, so there is one more issue. Two, I found here, which is this looks odd to me, because the column name starts with a this particular bracket ends with a bracket, and somehow I feel like the column names are starting with a space also, which here we can't clearly see, but so now I'm thinking, first I will clean the column names, because it's going to be a bit of irritation for us to deal with this. For example, if I quickly want to know what is implied volatility, I need to type in space bracket c underscore ib, which, which is not fun to work with, and also, these are these are in a capital letters, which is also not a standard way to kind of clean have a clean options or any kind of column names. So that's what we are going to start first. We will start by cleaning the names.

Speaker 1  30:54  
I have a slide that explains why and how that is done, but just to repeat, these are all the data structures we have. Any options data you should have these. I mean, your data should have these. Now that, since you've seen what data we have, let's come back to theory and just try to understand what exactly you need. Right, it's not always about just filtering out what data options provider gave you. First, you should be very clear about what data you need. Only then you can go for those filtering and clean. So, for that very reason, this is the at a basic level, right? If I'm doing option trading, what is the data look as a manual trader? First, you need to think like a manual trader to automate anything. So, first question yourself, what is the data you would use as a manual reader? Then try to get that data when you're creating a backtester. This is the simple thought process we have. If I am a manual trader, I would look at underlying, etc. Right, this is the very first thing I want. I would see how my underlying is performing, and I would see if the way the underlying is going isn't it. So I would want my data to have underlying data, and I would want my data to have strike price information. That is the most basic thing. Only then I can go ahead and see which strike rise I could pick. Then I would want my options later to have expiration date, also the date at which options expire, and it should also clearly tell me whether we are dealing with a call option or a put option. What is the use of getting options data if they don't just de-market call or put right, of course. Every data provider will give you that, but you should, your data should also have this, and it should also show you what is the bid price and ask price. If you have it, that's good. Even if you don't have it, that's fine. But if I were you, I would be happy to have this information, so that I know where I can buy or sell this particular options contract. If I don't have it, also that's fine. I can just run my back test on a closed price basis, right? This is again an industry practice. Whenever we're dealing with the daily strategies, we just take the end of the day close, and then you run your back test based on that. That is also fine, and I will be happy if I have volume information or open interest information, because more the information I can add more conditions instead of just back testing what would have happened if I just buy a long buy a call option, maybe I can add one more condition, what would have happened if I buy a long call when there is an extreme high level of open interest, so if I have these data points, it gives me more functionality, but I would also want implied volatility, because yeah, if you want to filter anything through volatility, or maybe you want to just take decisions at few volatile phases, and you would want IV, also last but not least, you would want your data to have options creaks, because see, I know you can calculate options creaks, but it's better, better exchange your data provided user, so that we don't need to put our time and effort on calculating this. This is this is the structure of options data I would want, and but then now, of course, we have that in our data frame. You're seeing now, how do we clean the data right? These are the necessary steps you do to clean the data. This is again, there is no industry standard to clean the data, but since I have taken the most unstructured data, and most of the option data are unstructured, because if they give you in the form of a CSV with a clean by cleaning everything, it takes effort from the data provider side also to maintain it and clean it, because options data is huge and massive, right? And also we sourced from a free data provider, so we can't expect them to maintain all these things, so we are going to do it on.

Speaker 1  34:59  
Ourself, so first step is to kind of get clean columns, like first make sure you have clear names, so we're going to rename the column names, you're going to see how we do that, then we might as well remove unnecessary column data. Why to stress our systems with the amount of data? Right, just remove unnecessary columns, and if needed, we'll add required columns also. Yeah, we in this exercise also, we're going to add one column. You're going to see then clean unnecessary space in data. This is actually important, because when a data provider gives you data in the form of a text or a CSV, there are lots of data transformations that happens, so a number might be converted into a string, and you are taking the data and converting it to a data frame. So, in this particular transformations, many times more often than not, there would be some additional space that might come creep into your data. So, we are going to see, we're going to check for that and clean that also, and last but not least, we are going to check all the data types, and then correct the data types, so that's what we are going to do, and this is essentially what we have right now, the data you're seeing on the notebook, I just called the data frame dot columns, and it gave me this output, so here it is actually very clear, here there is unnecessary bracket, but from second and third columns there is unnecessary space also. So, first we are going to solve this. There is unnecessary leading space and square brackets, and I don't need this capitalization. So that's what we're going to do. Essentially, we are going to convert the columns from this to this. This is the first step we're going to, we're going to do. Let's see how it's done. So we're talking about cleaning the column names, and this is the code for it. So this particular piece of this piece of code, this line is going to remove the square brackets for you, and then the next line will move any quotes in your particular data. Then next line is going to see here. I want to remove spaces. Right, smart way to do it is just replace spaces with underscore, and then just remove the underscore. That's how I solve this problem of spaces. I just replace all spaces in the data with in the column with underscore, and then I remove that, and the next one is remove any other square brackets that we have. So this is what we did, and finally we converted into lowercase. So the methods we used is strip, so whatever you give as input to strip, it's going to strip that particular thing. Then we just replace, we replace single quotes with, we just remove single quotes by using replace, then replace space with an underscore, then all this pretty standard ones to use on any column names, and finally I got this column names. So, what we did was we got options data, and we didn't feel right about the column names. We also, we just first we clean the column names, and then, as I was saying, so there are some white spaces, there are some spaces at the beginning and ending, sometimes it might be left also here. It's actually clear that everything is clear here, but still, when it comes to your data, data, right? I'm going to show you how this is keep on getting this hat. Yes, so if you see this in column, we removed it, but what if there is a space in data, right? So we're going to see that also. As of now, we just clean the columns. Now, after we clean the column, you just need to think, what are all the columns you don't really need. If you don't need any columns, just drop the columns. For example, if you see, I don't need these columns, the ones I selected. I don't need to know when the data was sourced. What date basically tells you on when the data provider collected the data. I don't need all these, and I don't need timestamp of expiry. I know expiry date, right? It's pretty common knowledge for an expiry, depend of course, depending on the exchange, and it's easy for me to get an exchange expiry date.

Speaker 1  39:23  
So, here I have expiry date. Why would I care about expiry times? This is not needed for us. So, we just need to drop these columns instead. Call the data frame and just use dot drop method, and you can give list of columns, and you can drop this, and also, if you, I'll just show you why to rush it. Let's just see how it's done. Yes, so after you do this, I just kept the data, but if you don't want this, you just need to call something like. A this particular options data frame

Speaker 2  40:05  
options underscore data or

Speaker 1  40:18  
and just use drop and then in it, queue the columns, the list of column names, and you can just drop it, and the next piece to understand if we have enough information, or should we add any more information. So I have added a column called Symbol. I'll tell you the reason why I know it currently may sound redundant, because we know what the symbol is. It has just SPX, right? But sometimes you might have a data provider that might give you options, contracts of different or different underlyings, some might give you a combination of SPX and SPY, maybe, or may, or different stocks. It's quite common if you're getting options data of stocks in SPX or SMP find it. They might give you a big amount of data with its column called symbol, which has the underlying symbol. Here I just added it, so that it makes it more structured. So now that's why, when you see here, here you, you don't see symbol, because this is the data they gave us. But if you want, you can add symbol, but in this scenario it's not needed. Actually, need not add symbol, because we are dealing with single symbol. So, the next one being, if you have a space in your data, how do you deal with it? It's quite common problem. This is there in our data set also. When you're working, you will find it. This is IV value of one of the options in the 2 million rows we have, and when I printed it out, I could see there is a space here. So, first we need to remove those spaces. I'll show you how it's done. So, when I actually call this, see, I just picked in that particular data frame, I just took the last row. For the last row, I picked the column c underscore id. When I checked what type it is, it is actually in the form of a string. This is actually strange. For example, let's see. Let me show you how it looks like so it is actually post I made the all the corrections, that's why it looks like this, but when you run this notebook from the beginning, you would see, but essentially this doesn't tell me whether it is a string or not, but if I call the type it shows me it is a string shows me it is a string, because if the data we got from the data provider is in the form of a string, so even if you see here it is in the form of an object, you need to be very clear what you're dealing with. This essentially should be in the form of a float, isn't it? Because you're dealing with decimal points, so for that very reason we carefully just convert everything into appropriate data types. So first we need to sit and understand what data types your data should have, and then we make the change. So that's essentially what we're going to see. These are all the data types we have for all the columns, so here I just removed those columns that we don't need, and these are the columns we have. There are 29 columns where first underlying last, it's fine if it is a float for me, it's fine symbol. I don't mind being an object, but when it comes to expired date, it is an object, but I would want it to be a date time object, right? It should be a date time data type, so this I would want to change. Then days to expiry is float. I'm fine with it. All these call option parameters, the Greeks are in the form of float, which is good, because there are just numbers, right? But when it comes to IV and volume, somehow they are objects, so I don't agree with it, like anybody, nobody would agree with it, right? Because if only if it is in the form of float, the IV value, I can do mathematical calculations. If it is in the form of object, I can't go ahead with that for that very reason. The ones you see in red are the faulty data types we have in our data. Those are converted into the appropriate data types. I'll show you how it is done, but this is this is the output we need to get whenever you pull in the data.

Speaker 1  44:59  
Types of the columns or the data you have, it should have proper data types. So, let's see how we did it. So, first we listed down all the columns that should have float as a data type. Then we listed down all the columns that should have date as a data type, then I just converted all these columns into float and all these columns into date, that's essentially what we did, so we created a list of columns called float columns, and if you just need to be a bit smart about it, here what I decided was wherever I see C underscore in the column name, all these should be in the form of a float. That's the relation I took, and wherever I see P, also essentially anything, any numerical thing that related to call or put in this particular columns, I see they're starting with C underscore. So I just created a list of columns called float columns, and I wrote a piece of code that collects the columns that starts with c underscore, similarly date, if the column has date in this column name, then I consider that as date column, and essentially converted I use this particular thing, PD, draw to numeric. This will convert everything into float. Then I used another thing, PD to date time. This will convert all these things in date time. It's actually simple code. It's simple because we understand the data, or else it's where it's actually very hectic to do this, but it's, it's actually a beautiful way to kind of clear, clean our data. We just define what a list of columns that should be in float, list of column that should have date time, and then use just write a small for loop that actually does this for you. Here it is, picking each column and converting into numeric and here it is picking each column and converting into data, so finally this is what we have. These are all the columns that are converted into float, which should be the right one, and these are all the columns that were converted into date. So that's how we got initially this was the output, and finally this was output. That's how we achieved. So now also there is one more interesting. I know how to show this. This is actually massive data. So I was going through each column and then trying to deal with it. There is another column called C underscore size, so this is essentially telling me what is the bit, and ask. I'll just show you in real time. Let's see options chain. I take generally I take NSA options chain as example, because it has more amount of data. It's better to take difficult examples, isn't it when we are discussing in class, so as you could see there is huge amount of information here, right, but if you take a single row it has build quantity and ask quantity, what essentially tells you is how many contracts are up for, like, how many buy orders are there, and how many sellers are there in a simpler form. So, my data, the data I got from Options DX, also has this information. See, if you don't want to use it, you can just drop those columns, but I need this because this tells me whether there are anybody who is willing to buy or sell this contract, or in a way, technically I'm seeing whether the contract has any common form of liquidity or not. So, what we did was there is a column called C underscore size, so I just listed down what the values are. This is how it looks. Maybe I'll just show you how it looks. See, this is how the data looks, so when in this massive data weight it always takes time to just get the data frame. Yeah, in this massive data frame, I'm just I'm just trying to understand one column, which is C underscore size. So essentially this data provider gave in this format seven cross seven itself bits cross asks, there are seven bits and seven asks.

Speaker 1  49:27  
So this is a very peculiar day to day for me, because if I try to convert it into any form of text, it's actually in the form of text, but I can't convert it into numericals, so this is just a, I'm just telling you guys, there is, there is this particular two columns that has this unnatural data, so if you want to use this, you can use this, but it's just that it tells you how many bits and how many hours. Are there is we just, we can just keep it as text also, so we see all these things we discussed. Now it might sound complex for you, but I don't think you would chance upon these scenarios every single day or every day single data provider. I intentionally picked the most complex one, at least our other complex one I found, so that in future, when you are dealing with any data provider, you are required. So, these are all the columns that we have. As I said, I am just dropping this column, I don't need these columns, right? So, this code, date, etc. etc. So, this, as I told you earlier, you just need to, you call the data frame dot drop, and within it give the list of columns. So I created a list of columns I don't need, and I pass it as an input to columns parameter. In addition to that, we added one more column called symbol, so I just added one column called symbol, and I gave the value SPX, so finally it looks like this for me. This is essentially what my data frame looks like now. I have very understandable column names. Now it's very clear, I - they're very easy to read, and I added a symbol column, but you don't need to add it. Also, it's fine since we are dealing with single symbol, but still. And now it is actually very clear. See the delta, everything proper, proper. They are in a float format, and you see there are some man values also. We'll discuss how to deal with it. And yes, we have all the data ready, but as I said, this is just cleaning, right? If we could go back to what we discussed, we just clean the data, but it doesn't stop there, right? The let's go back and see what are the steps we have. Yes, so these are the steps we have. So, first we collect the options and underlying data that we already downloaded, then we kind of data structuring, what do you mean by data structuring? Just cleaning the data types and also clearing if there are any unnecessary columns, etc. And we clean that column names and the data as well. So these things are done, but now I actually, it's very confusing for anybody, see, for a single day, I don't know, here it shows day till expiry is 2000 days, so which is almost seven eight years or days, so many years are left for expiry for me here, so and there are call on there are contracts with zero days to expiry, also. So it has information of options contract at multiple expirys. I see here the expiry date is 2029 and here the expiry date is 2023 So we downloaded the date of 2023 So I don't want all these right, and in it I have daily expiry, monthly expiry, weekly expiry. So this particular data is very confusing to me, because this data doesn't tell me what expiry these contracts belongs to. There is no classification of expiry for me. For that very reason, we need to add another column that tells us what particular expiry this belongs to. Is it a weekly? Is it an X C? Just with the date, you can't say if it is a weekly or a monthly or any expiry, right? Maybe for few you can, but when you have 2 million rows, you should actually have a column that tells you that for that very reason, let's go to step three, which is classifying data as per expiry, where we should actually have the data that tells us what expiry it belongs to. I want to spend a couple of minutes here, because I've actually classified into multiple types. There are options contract that are daily expiry, right? That means they expire in a day.

Speaker 1  54:09  
There are end of the month expiry contracts, there are weekly expiry contracts, there are monthly expiry contracts, and within the month also you have near month, next month, far month, or so. Then you have leaps. Leaps are the contracts that are expiring in long terms, like contract that expires within any year, or within two years, three years, etc. So I wrote a code that first classifies our contracts according to these, then it's on us. If I want to deal with end of the money contract, I deal with end of 20 contracts. If I want to deal with monthly expiry contracts, I just filter the data frame with monthly expiry contracts, and then go ahead with whatever analysis I want. So to be. It clear leads to the contracts that expires a year or more from now, monthly expiry. These are these. See, I have taken SPX contract side, depending on the exchange it was in, also depending on scenario in 2023 This is how these are defined. So, current month, third Friday is what near month is next month, third Friday. These are all expiry dates in 2023 Then, and far month is the third Friday, two months out. Later month is any monthly expiry if it is not near month, next month, or four month. So, similarly, weekly expiry, any Friday that is in third Friday, because third Friday is a expiry date for monthly contract, so this is for this is for SMP 500 SPX contracts, and end of the month contracts are the contracts that expires on the last trading day of the month, and daily expiry, you know that, so I'll show you how we did it in Python. Yeah, we have discussed until this part, then classifying expiry type, so written a function for it. So, this is this is the same thing what we discussed in the slide. So, you don't need to do anything, you just need to call this function and use dot apply. So, dot apply, if you just apply that function to each row, it's going to tell you what expiry that row belongs to. Let's see how it works. So, this is the function for that. It's a simple function, which is doing what we discussed here. It is checking what category it falls to, and accordingly, it's going to create a column called expiry type, so depending on the expiry date and the code date, it's going to give you what expiry type it belongs to. So now it is easy for me, so I'm going to show you how this particular column, expiry column, looks like. Expiry type is the column, and these are all the values it has. I'm not running it now, because it takes so much of time, and I think last time I ran it, it took like 40 minutes to run, because it goes to each core in this 2 million rows, it goes to each row, and then creates this cell by cell, but this is a one-time activity. You don't need to do it every single time, right? Whenever you get data, if you process it and save it, you can use it anytime you want. You don't need to do all this exercise. This is a single-time exercise. You do it only once, and then you can create any kind of strategies or back tests, etc. So that I did, and if you see, whenever I call data frame dot any column name dot unique, it tells me what are all the unique values that particular thing has, and this column has these values: daily, monthly, I wrote monthly, later month, that tells me it is not near month, end of month, or next month, then I have leaves and four month, so now see we don't need to run this data again and again, right? So I'm just saving it as csv. The reason why I'm doing it is maybe tomorrow if you want to continue working on it, you better just read the csv, right? See, I know we have other back testers that we are going to use at that time, we don't need to do all this, since I've cleaned everything and saved it as CSV. I just call this clean CSV, that's it. So, what I did was I just cleaned it, whatever data frame we have, I just saved it.

Speaker 1  58:35  
Now I'm going to show you how you can filter it. See, this is a.. if I just run it, it saves in my local system with 2 million rows. The entire 2 million rows, along with additional column, we have total 2 million rows and 30 columns. But now, if you want to save only daily data, just use like this. So I just filter the column, we filter the data with the column name expiry type with value daily. If I filter it, I'll just save it as daily HPX later. I just saved it as daily, so that in future, if I am dealing with daily options contracts, I just get this data, which is from a local system, and go ahead with back test, but I did it for monthly. Also, I did the same thing for monthly filter records with near month. I just here, I'm only dealing with near month contracts. When we say near month contract, it's like any third Friday that they are expiring that is conclaved as near month, but we already segregated here. We have for every contract we have expiry type, right? So, in this, this particular line of code just filters the contract which has expiry type as near monthly, and I saved it as monthly. This is the CSV we are going to use when we create different back testers. You can do it for any type if you want to deal with only leaps that call. Contract that expires more after an year, then you just type in leads here, and then you get a data frame of leads and save it. So this is this is just saving the data, but again I'll show you how the data looks like. So if I want to see, maybe I want to see only these columns. I just this for an exercise. I gave this list of columns. You can also give a single column, two column, but I'm just showing you. I'm just, I just want to know, for a single day, how many contracts I get. See, generally, or a single day, how many contracts you, how many rows you get for an underlying that single road, but since it's an options data, if I take the raw data, I'm not taking monthly or not taking weekly or daily. If I take the entire data for any day, I just took a single day, every single day I have 7549 rows. So this is, this is it, has a mix of daily, expiry contracts, weekly, monthly, until leaves. This is what you need to avoid, since this is a huge amount of data. Always filter the data that you don't actually need to process, so that's where you talk about data processing, where you would remove the data that is irrelevant for you. So far we discussed what are irrelevant columns, right? There are specific rows that are irrelevant, that is what I'm going to show you. One second. So these things we discussed, but this is called filtering, where we filter out the contracts that we don't really need. First thing is we would only want active contracts, right? I don't want inactive contracts, or I don't want illiquid contracts, and I don't want irrelevant contracts as well. Just as I said, if I have 2 million rows in that way I might be interested in daily contracts, I would filter out the rest, then I would also see implied volatility values, bid us values, and filter out few things. So I think it's time to better we take some break, because there are too many things that we discussed so far. Let's take a break here. Let's take 10 minutes break, and after break, we are going to discuss how to filter the options contract we have. I don't want us to deal with 7500 contacts per day. Let's bring it down, at least 50 60% of the data we don't need. So, let's see how we filter, and then we move ahead, so let's, let's be back in 10 minutes Hi everyone. Meanwhile, let's see, what are all the open questions we have before we continue. Okay, Shreyas asked for options back testing, do we use historical volatility or realized volatility?

Speaker 1  1:11:26  
Actually, since we are using historical data, both are same, essentially use the volatility value that is there for underlying, so both are same, but again, it depends on your contract, or depends on the strategy you're using. If you're just buying an option, the long call option without any IV calculations, it doesn't matter, but if you want to compare your IV with underlying IV, then you just calculate the standard deviation of returns of underlying that is going to be your historical and realized volatility, and Shreyas also asked, in Mumbai, where do you get historical options data? If you talk about India, I source it from Zerodha. Zerodha has a historical API, but I think I must use this disclaimer: I'm not endorsing any data provider, but there are many data providers. Let me list down few. One more reliable data provider is True Data, which many hedge funds also use this data, and that is listed in our NSE website of data providers, that is in collaboration with NSE. So that particular data provider, True Data, directly gets the data from Exchange itself, so you can touch the data. Average costing of Nifty options historical error, it depends. There are free data providers. There are some locations where you can get this data for free. You can also collect the data by yourself. You can collect it every day, and then have it with you, and if it is zero, that I don't want to name any cost, but it's actually almost free. If it is zero, you just need to pay for monthly API cost, which, which doesn't even cost two 3000 but yeah, it depends on the data provider. If you're going for industry grade options data, like from, let's say, true data, it's actually very costly. Yes, and historical data, right? It depends on the frequency of data. If it is a one minute options data, which I have, that is actually very, very costly. So I started collecting one minute options data from 2016 Every single day I have a script that runs, and it collects data, and then it appends, and it saves in my own database. You can also do that exercise. It's actually very valuable if you could do it. It's better you collect your own options data and keep it with you. You can just write a script that gets you options data of today, and then happens to your historical database that can be done if you plan to do that. Jesse says bar chart is $20 a month, probably the cheapest I know of, but it's quality. Yes, bar chart pretty much has good data as far as my experience goes, but yes, anybody who is charging will essentially do the cleanups for you, and then maintain the data sanity that's there. And Raghavendra asks, in practitioning option strategies, why is it important to use a full option chain rather than just a handful of strikes? For example, let's say 10 to 20 strikes above and below at the money wouldn't focusing on those closer strike price capture most of the relevant dynamics, or does excluding the wings distort the result in a meaningful way? It's actually a very relevant and good question, Raghavendra. What he essentially is asking is, why do we need to deal with millions and billions of rows if we only. Relevant things are very closest to at the money, and he's also asking, what if I just only create strategies for options that are closer to at the money. There are two things here. First thing, yes, it's absolutely not necessary to deal with millions and millions of rows, that's why we are trying to filter them out, and you will see that right now, that's exactly the discussion. How do you filter it? I mean, after I finish this questionnaire, I'm going to discuss that second thing. If is it logical to just use the contracts that are closer to the money? It is, but again, there is always a importance is in detail, right? If you are dealing with our way out of the money options, then you should get more data. If you remember yesterday, not initially in the previous class, we created a combination of options, and we realized it is too risky, so we bought a put way out of the money put. So, in that case, it depends on your strategy.

Speaker 1  1:15:59  
If you're dealing with way out of the many options, then you might want to pick contracts, more contracts, and Shreya source. We don't have deity column, which helps identify expiry classification. You're true, that's right. So that's essentially what we did in this code here. I wanted to be very fundamental. That's why we have a column called code date, right? We have a column of code date, we have a column of expiry date. I just took a difference between these two, essentially. What the days to exp query, what this essentially indicates. We already have it. You can also use that column, but almost none of the data providers gives you dt column. I mean, everybody gives you coded and expiry. That's why, when I created this notebook, I intentionally calculated data to expiry myself, and then categorized. If data expiry is greater than 365 we use leaps as a value, and then we check what Friday it belongs to, and depending on it, if it is third Friday, then we classify it as Niyan month, third Friday of the next month, then it is next, like that, and if it is Friday, then we classify it as weekly, like that, like the similar things we discussed here, I wrote in the code like that, but says what you're saying is right, absolutely right, Manikandan asks how to add new options data to the already processed and clean database. This is, is there a way to automate it? Automate the process. This is again very good question, because if I am cleaning the money, can then is coming from a very basic idea. Yes, I'm doing this access today and tomorrow. If I want to add tomorrow again, do I need to do all this exercise? Because what is the difference between today and tomorrow? A single data, single days of data, right? So essentially, Manikandan, you just need to clean it only for the day. Here you are seeing cleaning for 251 days a year worth of data, right. So the next day you just don't input all the data, just input only two days data, and then just append it to the data frame. Then that's essentially what you can do, but you need to do all this because for a single day you have seven 100 data points, so seven 100 rows, right? So again, if you want to be very updated, if you want to. Generally, people update database once every month, depending on your back. But I would actually end of the month or beginning of the month, I will just update it and then rerun my back test. So, and I just append it, but I am in the same mind space as you are. I don't need to download, like, do the success for all the data, because I already cleaned the data until previous month, right? So I get this month's data, clean it, and append it to the already saved CSV. I don't see any more questions. I think somebody was asking one more question, maybe that was already answered, but yeah, if there are any questions still left, then you just need to just type it out. Yes, choice, I agree with you. We do have DTE column in this, but I'm just saying I didn't intentionally use DTE column, because if you go, go, go ahead and take it from somebody else, right, some other data provider, they might not give you DTE, that's why I just added a way to kind of create our own DTE. It's fine, I mean, you just need to instead of days to expiry, you just use DTE. This is just the same code, nothing changes. So, let's review or revise what, where we are essentially just a quick recap. We are still at collecting the data. We just got the data. We're still at cleaning the data, and we clean the data. Now we have clean data in our hands. Now the question is, within the clean data, now you need to think to my strategy to. Wherever I'm going from here, what are all the relevant contracts? That's where you talk about filtering, and we filter unnecessary ones. So, let's see how we do it. Let's see the Python implementation of filtering options contract based on Experian liquidity. So, so, as I said, I created two CS ways, one for daily expiry, one for Nea month.

Speaker 1  1:20:26  
So, this we have discussed, but now the next one is filtering, right? So, the very first one is, see if the last traded price of contracts are zero, it just tells me that they are not worth it. I mean, this is this is another way of taking out way out of the many contracts nobody cares about. So, initial step, I just remove the contracts that has last traded price as zero, because that doesn't - these are the contracts nobody is actually opening, also nobody is dealing with it. So, this is how you do Python: you filter the data frame with conditions, you just give list of conditions. I have a condition. The first condition is the last rate price of call option should be greater than zero, and second condition is last price of put should be greater than zero. If both conditions are met, I want it to be in my data frame, that's what we did, and now if you see from 2 million we came down to 1 million. Then the next one is, as I guess Malikandan was saying, this particular thing you can actually edit it out and change, he was Mangan was proposing, why don't we take contracts, 10 contracts about the money, 10 contracts below the money, but it's better to talk in terms of percentage. I'll tell you why, because the prices changes for each contract, right? For index, it's fine, but if you're doing with, let's say, stock options, then then you can't just say 10 about 10 below. You should always normalize these filters. That's why I used the index, like 5% as a threshold. Here in the code, you can see 15% If you want to change it to 5% just remove this one, it goes to 5% So you can just kind of filter out the contracts, which, which are closer. If I filter, I first uncomment it. If you want to filter it, and then just call the data frame within it. Add a condition here. My condition is the strike distance percentage should be less than 0.5 So, in such case, it gives me only the contacts that are 5% closer to the underlying price, or the money contract, that is one way, and again, if there are no bits and asks, I'm just removing them, because there's no point in just storing them in our RAM when we are processing this data frame, so again the same thing. You call the data frame, and you give your conditions. Here, I'm just saying I don't want the call size to be zero, and I don't want put size to be zero. So this is one more filter, and then filtering based on IV values. See, sometimes there are no IV values that are given in the data set, so you can do many things. You can, you can replace the IV values with probably average IV, or forward fill the IV values, or you can just drop the nine values also, but it depends on how many are there. This is a pretty solid data set. There are only few, so I just, I think they're about 15% of the data as nine values, and most of the times they are contracts that, as like that, has unnecessary expirations, like expirations, which we generally don't de, like long term expiry, etc. So I just deleted or dropped those nine values, but if you want, you can replace the nine values of these columns with an average or moving average, etc. But here I just dropped it, then anything would be fine, depending on where you're going with it, so the same thing we did. Sometimes people actually, there would be some data contracts that nobody cares about, but then when you download the data, you would have it, unless there is a trading activity, you don't need to deal with them, so I just dropped all the contracts that as bid prices as zero. So I don't contracts should have some kind of a bid price. So I just said not equal to zero. So if there are four conditions, call, put, ask, and bid, so total four combinations, and there are very few. Previously, we had 807k Now we have 780 3k So, essentially, some 34k contracts were dropped, but this is actually minor. Very few contracts were dropped here.

Speaker 1  1:24:55  
So, if you do this, once I do all this. Say again. Now we are at the stage where we are just cleaning the data, right? Then again, check your information. See, this is like, okay, I felt like, okay, I'm good. I can go ahead and create a back test, but I'm just again checking. So now I, when I print out option data or out info, it gives me information. Now these are beautiful, very readable for me, the column names, and I should also see all the nominal values are same, exactly 780 3k non nominal values, and data types also very relevant. I don't have any unusual data type, so I will just go ahead and filter the year month contracts, and then same as save them as CSV. So that's essentially it. When we are dealing with data, you do see this is this is my way to filter stuff, and my way to clean, because I went a bit detailed, because you don't need to do all this, but doing all this, I felt I need to do all this, because I am creating a back to ship, so this is absolutely needed for me to have a absolutely flawless back dish. And finally I saved it as a CSV. Here I saved the cleaned data, I did all the cleaning, I did my filtering, and I saved it. And essentially we started with 2 million, but then we ended with point 7 million, right? So we create most of the unnecessary data, and then we only save the relevant ones, so that's pretty much it. And I will run this cell small, because it takes some time, but if you just run this and then see what this data is, it would be much less than 73k because 780 3k is the contract that has daily expiry, monthly expiry, the elites, etc. But if you just only filter monthly contracts, that would be much lesser than this, and further, whatever we do, it would be much faster if we actually do it. So, just to summarize, we extracted options from compressed files, right. We had compressed files, we had in form of zip files, we extracted them, put it in a single unified data frame. Then we cleaned the column name, standardized the column names, removed wherever it could be number, we convert them into number, wherever it is date, we converted into date. Then we classified the expiry type and we filtered and saved the relevant ones, that's essentially what we did. So this is actually important, because if you want to do any analysis or options, this is how you need to start with, and then you go for backtest, and now now we go for backtest and see exactly where, how we structure a backdrop, so finally yeah, this we discussed how the outputs are and how the filtering had happened, but now the heart of this lecture, which is simulating a trading execution, I named it very particularly like this because I don't want to use back test, backtest. We are creating an engine that simulates trade execution, just like you, just like you, being on the very trading day. What are the decisions you take and the actions you take? Whatever engine we have right now should do it. That's why it's also called as event-based backtest, because you are almost simulating what you would have done on that very second, so it should, you need to give it an event. Event could be if today is the beginning of the month, take an action, so beginning of the month is an event for you. An event could be if price changes by 10% do certain action, and that action is what we are testing. When we say backtest, we are back testing that particular action of historical data. So the structure we create today, you can use it for any event. You just need to write an event and use the same structure.

Speaker 1  1:28:57  
We're going to see how that is, and any market condition, let's say you, if you want to, if you say, if today is a bullish day, take this action, yes, or backtest can handle it, all the events it can handle it, and it, it is complex, actually, we could have made it maybe a bit more easily with a vectorized backtest, you can, you can read what is the difference between a vectorized backtest, an event-based backtest. Event-based backtest is an industry-grade backtest engine for you, because if you have an event-based backtest in your hand, by changing few lines, you can actually take it live. But vectorized backtest, you can't actually take it live. It only tells you what is the performance in the past. You can't add stop loss and vector is back test in event-based. You can. I'll also show you. In fact, I have code also, but I didn't want to add it in this class, but I just added in the notebook, so that anybody who's interested can use that code also, which also has profit target and stop loss. Very detailed level we structured this particular lecture. So let's try to understand, but crunching how it is done, but before that, you need to be very clear about few things first. When are we placing an order? When I say, when are we buying, placing an order, I mean, when we, when do we buy, when do we sell? Any strategy, the important things are when do we turn on the strategy, that is what an event is. So, when does an event trigger, and when does an event turn your strategy on? Your strategy can't be on every single day, you can't or shouldn't take position every single day, unless your strategy is such, right? So you should have an event trigger for any strategy. You should have an event trigger. Point one, the second one, you should have an execution logic. Execution logic is nothing but it talks to talks about when are you entering and when are exiting. Okay, today an event triggered now. What do I do? How do I place an order? Should I go for a market order? Should I buy today, or should I buy tomorrow? That is your exhibition logic. The third one is time sensitivity. The reason why we are dealing with event-based back test is in real life, only when you realize there is an event triggered, you take a position. We write code in such a way that it checks every single day for an event, only when an event is triggered, it does what it's supposed to do, or what you would do as a trader. So that's the DNA of this particular engine. So this, this actually, we already discussed, like the advantages, it is a more realistic representation of what happens in the market, and also, instead of instead of just doing heavy calculations every minute, it just focuses, just calculates only when an event is triggered. That's essentially what we want to do. So, let's, let's kind of focus more on the code now, but before that, just want to tell you there are few functions. There are few actions that you do repeatedly. I'll give a very basic example. If I am trading, let's say I am looking at SMP 500 and I'm somebody who would buy a call option when I see a let's say extreme up move in the market, so to put it simply, if I see lots of buying happening in the market, I go buy a call option, but in real life, when I do that, how do I do? I open my system, I check SMP 500 charts, when I see an uptrend, I go and probably is an options order, right, but while I'm doing it, in one important thing for me is at what price that option is trading, right? So to put it simply, any single time, most of the times the repeated action I do is to check what is the premium of an option, because sometimes I might deal with $10,000 option, I mean strike price, I'm talking about the contract might be 10,000 is relevant today, tomorrow if price goes up, maybe 11,000 is relevant day after tomorrow, 13,000 is relevant, or 14,000 is relevant, so every single day I would want to know the premium of option according to strike.

Speaker 1  1:33:25  
Sometimes I want to know premium of $10,000 $20,000 $13,000 whatever it may be. So, if I hold you something, if there are any repeated tasks like this, it suffice to create a function and just call the function general, writing lines and lines of code every single time, right. So that's what we did. So there are few repeated things with your back testing. There are few things you do repeatedly. For that, first we create some functions that help us do it. The very first thing is function to find the strike price of a contract based on strike price and expiry. Essentially, what I mean is function to find the premium function to find the premium of a contract depends on strike price and expiry. So, if I have a strike and an expiry date, I should have a function that quickly tells me what is a premium, so that I can use that premium for as an entry price. So, this is one function. Second is function to classify data as per exit condition, what it means is, in future, once I did all my, like, when I say in future, let's say I'm, I traded for a month now, if I sit and try to understand how my trading had happened, I should know how I exited, right? Did I exit as a stop loss? Did I exit as a profit target? Did I exit because the market is expiring? What is it? So, if I could note down that while I'm back testing, it helps me a lot. Similarly, I should have a function that set up option strategy. This is a beautiful part of this code, because if you change this function, I create, I would want a. A function for each strategy, for a straddle, I want a function, so if I want to back test straddle, I just call that function. If I call a triangle function, then my back tester will turn into a strangle back test. If I call a butterfly function, my back tester will convert into a butterfly function or butterfly backtest. See, what I wanted to do is I would want a small function. If I change the function, my back test will change the strategy it is back testing. That's essentially how it is structured. I don't want to create a new backtest every single time, and adding a new leg, right? So you just need to modify the function so that the back test will back test that strategy. I'll show you how to create it and use it also, but the fourth one is function to calculate mark to market of the trade. What it means is I would want a function that calculates what is the profit and loss right now at this moment. This is a common thing traders does when they're trading, they quite often they go to their trade sheet or they go to the positions window, and then see how much money they made, are they in profit or not. So I created this also in our back test, so that at any point of time, if you want to know what is the current profit, I just call this function. So actually, initially when I created, there are lot many functions, but I realized it's better to make it simple and then efficient, so I just took two very handful of functions in this code. So, let's see how these things are. We'll go to Python notebook now. We'll see the flow of the back test and also the functions we just saw, how they're created and how they're used, so Just one second. Yes, so now we are going to see long call back test notebook. It looked, might look like a lengthy notebook, but it's much simpler than the data download, I feel it's not as lengthy as the data download, but I'll show you how these things are done. Let me, yes, so I've actually extensively wrote down markdowns for you, so that when you read it, it's very easy for you, but there are comments also for you to clearly understand, like wherever things are getting complicated. I added comments also, and I intentionally did not use complex code.

Speaker 1  1:37:30  
I stuck to basic methods, which are easy to understand, and this code could have been shortened if I use, see, I can actually club all these into a single line also, but you would want you to intuitively understand when you go through the notebook, that's why you see lengthier functions. But initially we started these functions. See, maybe these are more detailed, we might not need it also at this moment. For example, if I am trade use, this function will tell you what day it is in the sense some people might want to take a position on the very first trading day, so for that your back tester should be intelligent enough to know, are we on a very first trading day or not. I know it's easy to check it every single time, but why to check it every single time, right? If you could have a function that actually categorizes the day as first day of the month, last day of the month, one day before expiry, or one day before last day, or one day before expiry. So I just created one function like that, that tells you a few parts of functions are there that essentially tells you, are we in a first trading day, or a second trading day, or a last trading day, because this particular strategy I want to enter on a very first day, every first day of the month, I would want to go ahead and buy a call option, essentially at the money call option, and I would want to close it on an expiry day, that it is a simple trading logic, we have the trading execution logic. The simple thing is my event is what day of the month it is. That's my event here. Here I created a simple event, because here are the object two of this class is to make you understand structure of a options factor. See, in future, even if you have a complex option strategy, you can use the same structure, you just need to change the event here. My event is what day of the month my trading days. If today is a beginning of the month, then I would want to trade. Then every single day I'll see is today what is the day of the month today? If that is on an expiry day, then I would want to exit. So that's why I had a bunch of functions that assigns the trading day for you, so for every single day the monthly options data set we created the last notebook. Let me show you where I got it. So this is where I imported it in. Okay, maybe I don't want to confuse you. Let's go from the very. Beginning, so for this, this notebook will have the back tested for a long call. I'm starting with a long call, because it is a single option leg strategy. Once you get an intuition of how it is structured for a single options contract, then we can add more legs to it, that's what we are going to see in the next notebook. So, what I did was this notebook will have full data and analytics, in the sense, full back test and performance analysis. Also, so first you load the data, right? Essentially, I am dealing with monthly data. So, in the previous notebook, we just filtered the data to the nearest month, then we saved it as monthly SPX full, so I just imported that, so I imported that, and that has only 50,000 rows, and if you see expiry type is all near month, so I'm only this, this, but this idea I only deal with the near month, so I just filtered them, so in that first I've created a function that tells me what day it is, is it the first trading day of the month, last trading day of the month, and there are other things also, a day before expiry, a day before last trading day, this is just added, so that in future if you want to play with it, you can play with it, but essentially this is the, we added one more column called trading day to our options monthly data frame. Then, then the next very step you need to do is what trading day we are in, right? Essentially, is it a regular trading day, is it a day before expiry?

Speaker 1  1:41:39  
So all these things, all this information, I'm trying to get it from underlying data, so we have underlying data. If you remember, in the options data itself, we have underlying data. So I'm just mapping, I'm just mapping and trying to figure out what particular trading day we have. Is it a first trading day, regular trading day, etc. And finally, I'm also checking, like, there are, it's absolutely needed for you to have your checks, because at any point of time you might do a wrong code, and then you might compromise the data. So, before I create my back test, I just added a check, a simple intuitive check, if any month number of first number of days with tag of first trading day should be same of number of days with the tag of last trading day, also day before expiry. So, for any month, there would be one first, there will be one trading day that is first, one trading day that is last, and one trading day that is day before expiry. So, I was just checking whether the length of number of days which are first is equal to length of number of days which are last equal to number of days which are days to expand. This is just to check, because any kind of data manipulation you do better to have some checks. And now we are actually starting to set up a back tester. So, just to be very, very clear, the our conditions are we want to take a position at the beginning of the month, and we are taking a buy position on a call option, so I, this is, this is exactly what we did. This is just an example. This is just an example to show you what you do in real life, right? If you're dealing, let's say, on this very day, okay? If you're dealing on this day, if you have your notebook, maybe you would note down these things, right? You would note down what is the option type you're entering. Essentially, back testing is kind of automating what you do when you're doing manually. When you have manual back test. What you do, you go to a chart and you write it on a notebook. Okay. On this day, I entered this position. Same thing, I'm trying to do. This is just showing you how this is just a piece of code that I pulled out from back test, just to show you how it prints out. So every day, whenever you enter, I want to enter like this. If it is a very frustrating day of the month, then I want to enter in a call option. This is that the money strike price, and then position is one. That means I am taking a long position. So we, we have to do few steps. Very first step you do is you need to find what is the strike price at the money. What exactly is the at the money contract for you? Only then you can pick the relevant contract, because we have n number of contacts, right? So in this, for if you see, if I go to this for every single day, I have many rows, and even if you could go much higher, see, for every single day there are many roles, because these roles belong to different strike prices. For that very reason, I don't want to enter on different contract, I want to enter on a single contract, which is at the money contract. For that very reason, the first thing we do is this. Is just a flow, basically. If I will show you the proper backtest engine, also, but this is a part of backtest engine, which will tell you every day it will check if, for example, for today, if this is a first trading day, it first calculates the at the money strike price. How do you calculate it? You just need to see which contract has the minimum strike distance, so I just filtered if the strike distance is the minimum strike distance, I just calculated, or I just extracted its strike value. So this is what it is, actually. I just printed that also.

Speaker 1  1:45:35  
So 3855 is that the money on this very day, but that very reason I created a table that shows me since this is the first trading day of the month, this is the data I noted down, so that based on this data my back tester will take an action, my back tester will note down, okay, on this very day I took a long position on call option with this strike price, but one thing that is missing here is at what price you are entering. This is clear for me. This is like a real time, right? I want to take a position. First thing I see, what is at the money. Okay, now I have seen at the money. Now the next step is at what is the premium of this contract, right? Because only when I know premium, I can note down in my back test. Okay, on this day, for this contract, I entered on that premium for that. This is the function we have seen in the PPT. Also, when we are discussing, first we create a small function that takes input, such as what is options contract. Basically, this only it just takes this as input and adds premium column full, so if you see this particular function is going to take this particular table as input and adds one more column that is premium, so this is essentially what a back test should need, so on the so every single day, it will see if your entry trigger is given these triggers. Here, our entry trigger is if it is a very first trading day of the month or not. If that is true, then it's going to note down these things, it notes down and saves these particular details along with the premium, and with this it's going to set up a strategy. This is the strategy function I'm talking about. When we go to triangle, all the other steps stay the same. Only this single function setup long call will change to setup long triangle. That's how simple this is created. So this is how this particular function is. So whatever data you have, this particular function takes the data as an input, and this function is written in such a way. If you want set up long call, right? If you want a short call in the input, instead of direction is equal to long, this is by default I give direction is equal to long. If you change it to short, then it will create a short call strategy for you similarly for long triangle. Also, I will show if you change the direction. If you go direction is equal to short, it is going to be converted into a short triangle back tester. So, what it does is, if you call this function, it's going to print out the same thing you did. So, basically, whatever steps we took here, I just printed out, printed this out, and I kind of elaborated for you to understand what happens in a strategy function. So, same code you have it in strategy function, basically these this strategy function you have same thing it has, and then it gives you same output. So, this is the number one, the first function your back tester uses. So back tester will simple, it's actually very simple. The back tester will check what is today. If today is a very first day of the month, it just uses it, calls this function and creates the details, then based on these details, your back tester will note down, it's almost like writing on a notebook, it writes on this particular day I took this action, and that's it, then it loops go to the second day, second day also it checks if it is the first day, of course it's not, so it will skip the day, it will skip until the expiry day, because you are closing your position on expiry day, right? So, I'll show you how that is done. So, just one second. Yes, let's spend. So, now that you got a basic idea, I'm going to get back to that again, and I'll repeat, and with the back tester, and we'll see output, but just to repeat, what are we trying to achieve here? We are trying to deal with SPX contracts, that's why we got SPX data, and we are only dealing with near-month expiry.

Speaker 1  1:49:53  
If you want to deal with the daily expiry, also you can do that, and your entire. In at the money call on first trading day of the month and exiting one day before the expiry, you can also change this if you want to close it on expiry, you can do it on expiry, I'll show you how to change all these, but here we are just closing one day before the expiry, just just to avoid the risks of expiry day volatility, that's essentially what it is, so if this is the strategy, how are we going to do it? Let me show you how we are going to do it, and then we'll get back to PPT. So this section implements a full back test loop for long call strategy, the strategy we discussed about. So this is how this, this is what happens in this particular data, particular back test. This is almost like if you are doing your own back test, what do you do? You open a fresh notebook, right? You open a book, you take up papers, or maybe empty papers, or a book which has space to write. Similarly, it will create some data frames, so that it can fill later. So, these are all the data frames we need. We, this is almost like end of the trading day. You would look at your trading notebook, right? Similar thing, it creates a data frame that stores your trade logs. Any trade you do, it's going to note down in a trade notebook, RMSA trade data frame. So, first it will create this empty data frame, so that it can fill later. Then it will create another data frame called trades. It has individual, very detailed information of trades: at what time you entered, what date you exited, what is the profit for it, what is the premium you entered, what is the premium you exited, what is the reason you exited? All this will be noted down in a trades data frame. For that, first, it will create an empty data frame. I'm going to show you all these in code in a step-by-step manner, but currently I'm just telling you what is there in our mind to achieve. Then you have another data frame called Mark to Market, which note downs what is my profit every single day, right, captures the daily market value of the position, so first it will initialize these footage will create this empty data frames. Then it's going to do the calculations, essentially. So it's going to just every day it's going to do first thing, it's going to do is if there are open positions today, then it's going to note down what is the current value of those positions. If there are no open positions today, then in such case it will check whether today is a frustrating day or not. If it is frustrating day, then it's going to start creating a strategy for you, start creating the back test for you. But before that, it's almost like in a notebook. First, we note down the trade number one, so all these things it is going to note down for you. It just defines a trade number, it starts a trade counter, and it starts accumulating your P and L for the previous P and L, and it also checks whether what is the exit condition. So, if anything is a bit confusing to you at this moment. You will get clarity within five minutes, because I'm going to show you what these are. I'm just reading it out, so that with repetition it's much easier for you to retain. So, once it note downs all this, it starts its back to loop. So, for every single day, it does these checks first. It will check whether the entry condition is met or not? What is our entry condition? It is the first today should be a first trading day of the month, and there should be no positions opening on the month. If both are true, then it will set up a long call by calling this function. It doesn't stop there, it's going to note down the entry details and initial premium, and accordingly it's going to update your mark to market and position straight.

Speaker 1  1:53:46  
Position state is just a state that is true or false, because if it is a frustrating day and still, if I have an open position, then what do I do is the question I have, right? So my deal is, you shouldn't have any open position, and it should be a first trading day, but since this is true and I'm setting up a strategy, then my position state should change from no position to position, so that's what it does, but if you're already in the position, let's say today I already have a position, then it will not create a trading strategy. Instead, it will check for exit condition. This is what happens in real time, also, right? If you don't have any position, you try to take a position. If you already have a position, you try to exit the position. So that's what it does. If you don't have a position, then it will check for entry condition and set up a trade for you if conditions are met. If you already have a position, it's going to note down what is the current profit and loss, that's what MTM does, and then it will check if the exit condition is met today. Here, our exit condition is day before expiry. If exit is triggered, then it's going to record the trade details, it's going to record exit rate profits. And then it's going to note down the round trip details, all these things, so let's see how these things are done, so this, this is the part of code, this is the main part of the test, so for whatever we discussed, I just added those pieces of code in this notebook, so that it's easy for you to intuitively understand, but this is where our backtest starts, and so it just doesn't use any extraordinary libraries. It just used pandas, that's it. I wanted to make it very fundamental and simple, because there are other other libraries also you can use, but as somebody who is coding by ourselves, we should be able to do everything from scratch. That's why it is kept as simple. So, as I was saying, the first step is it creates some empty data frames, right? So that later it can store wrong trips. Wrong trips are nothing but where we entered, where we exited. Entering and exiting is a wrong trip for us. And then it stores the trade for that, it has trade data frame, and then mark to market is another data frame where we store the mark to market data, so it creates three empty data frames. Then it, if we have a small function written that essentially calculates what is the profit or loss today, because since we calculate, we note down profit and loss every single day, instead of having these sets of lines of code, I just added a function. Let me just call this function. That's pretty much it. There is no more complications. It's simple. It creates empty data frame. It has a very simple function that calculates mark to market. So, whenever you start your data frame, sorry. Whenever you start your back edge, you start with no position, isn't it? That's whenever you're starting to trade on a very first day, you don't have a position, so you set current position as zero, trade number as zero, accumulator panel as zero. You're starting everything with zero, and initially your exit flag is false because you're not exiting right when you exit, then we will change. So, basically, these are all initial conditions. Any action taken, then we make update these conditions. So we let's start the back test. Back test is you start a loop that starts on the very first day and loop it till end date. This is where the event-based backtest philosophy comes in, because you would want to do a certain list of checks and list of actions every single day. That's what you do as a trader. That's where we write a loop where all the things within the loop are done every single day, so you start with your start date. If you want to back test from mid of the year, give started as some date, any data can give. If you give a random date and the back test, you're going to start from that random date.

Speaker 1  1:57:53  
Here, by default, I'm starting from very first date we have in your data. So when you have a loop, it's going to do this loop for all the dates each day, one after another, just like in real life. So, what it does is, first, it will check if you have a position, if you have a position or not. See, if current position is equal to zero, that means if you don't have a position and the underlying dot look I trading day. What it does is it checks whatever date that went in, it checks if it is the first trading day or not. So, if you don't have a position and it is a first trading day, then it's going to set up a call option for you. It's going to set up a long call option for you. And since, as soon as you enter a position, what you do, you note down your trades, right? That's what it does. It just creates a trades data frame. We have already seen this data frame, right? This, this is this what it does. It is this is this is the trade information you want, right? So it's going to create that. For that, you just need to call that function, and it is going to add a trade date. Also, it's going to add your trade date to it, and then essentially it's going to note the premium also. So all this information you would need on the trade sheet, I'll show you how this is. Then it's going to calculate net premium. Also, see the whole project. The whole point is this is created because depending on long position or short position, either you receive premium or you negate the premium, right? Or you receive premium or you give premium. So that's what this particular details. But what happens, we have taken a position, right? Since previously we had no position, that's the current position is zero, but now since we took the position, you need to update the value of current position. So now I changed my current position to one. So what I did is previously I don't have a position, that's why I took this action, which is just entering the trade. Then I changed the status of current position, and what else we do, we update mark to market, we calculate since we have a position. You should know what is the current market value of the position, so all these are the things you do in real life, also in the same sequence. Then, how many trades you have taken? Let's say you have 100 trades taken so far, but now you took a new trade, you need to add one more trade to your counter. So, after doing all this, you and you do all this, and you print out, you print what is the trade you entered. I'll show you how it is, and what is the entry? What is the date? What is the premium paid? I'll show you how it looks like. So, this is this is what happens as soon as you enter the trade. It's going to print out trade number one, and it shows you entered. It gives you the date you entered, and it gives you the premium you paid to enter this also, but all this we are saying only if this is true. What if this is not true? If this is not true, then it goes to a lift condition, and it checks if you have a position or not. If you have a position, then what does it do if you have a position and if the trading day is day before expiry, right? Whenever you have a position, you need to make sure if you position if today is the day you want to exit or not. So I am checking if I have a position, the same thing I do, I calculate the net premium today and I update my mark to market, so that I know what is the current value of my position, because I'm saying I already have a position, so I will calculate what is the current value of the position. I'll note it down, but I'll not stop there. I'll also check, should I exit my position today or not?

Speaker 1  2:01:35  
If exit, so it will just check whether today is a day before expiry or not, if today is day before expiry, then it will quickly go ahead and exit, so it's going to note down the exit type as expiry, because it should know where you exited, right, so it's going to print that out and it's going to change exit flag to true, and then note down all the trade information, so this is the same steps we did when we're entering trade, also when we're entering trade, we are just noting down what is the entry date, and all these, the same thing you do when you're exiting. Also, it note down what is the exit date, what type of exit it is, and what is the price at which we exited, and same things you did earlier. What is a wrong trip? Basically, wrong trip is entry and exit, right? So, as soon as you exited, you note down on your rounded data frame and calculate the net premium. Essentially, what is what is the net premium at exit? And using all these, you calculate your P and L. Also, since you know where, when you entered, you are noting down your premium. When you're exiting, you're noting down your premium. So you calculate your P and L cumulative P and L and print out everything. I'll show you how these are printed out. So, these are all you print out. You exit. What is the reason you exited it? Because you entered it because it's expiring. And what date you exited? And what is the premium you received? And what is the profit or loss? And what essentially is cumulative, so you bought an option at 59.6 and you sold it at 58.1 so you lost money, you lost 0.7 so this is this is a back test for you, so it does all these steps in an iterative manner, I'll show you how the output is, this is the output, so it just gave you first trading day after you exited the first trading day on the next day again when there is a beginning of the month, so here it ended at beginning of jan, then the next trade it ended at beginning of feb, the next day it ended at next trade ended at beginning of March, like that it printed out 12 trades for you, because our strategy is to enter on the very first day of the month, and we are dealing with one year worth of data, so for every, so there are 12 trades, when for every trade it's going to show you what is the P and L, for example, so far first trade you lost 0.7 and second trade you lost minus 62 so cumulative P and L is minus 62.7 and third rate we entered in March. You bought it for 83.5 and you sold it for 24 Again, you lost money, so you lost by that. So, like that it does, and essentially somewhere mid year it started to make money, because here we don't have any conditions, right? We are blindly just buying at the beginning of the month, so this is actually not a trading strategy that you need to deploy, but this is the structure with which you need to deploy. I'll show you how to change it. Also, if you want to change it based on implied volatility, also you can change. I'll show you how, but just just understand how these trades are done, and finally, you once this loop is done, you, whatever data frames you have here, which are empty, all these things will be filled. So, once these are filled, you just do your additional analysis. I'll show you some, maybe I'll just show you what are all the things that we have after these are flow. Is first we have a round trip details data frame, which was empty but filled while doing this back. So this is it looks now. So these are the round trip details. So this is the position you entered at this price on this date, and you exited on this date because it's or you wanted to exit one day for expiry, and this is the price, so this is just how what you see in your trading terminal. Also, in your data provider, any data broker will give you a ledger, kind of a thing, right?

Speaker 1  2:05:30  
But we don't just stop here using this, we do some analysis. For example, in options, everything deals with lot size, right? So we are just trying to use the same thing, the trades data we created in round trip data we created and calculated P and L also. So we have your P and L is calculated since you have entry day, entry price, and exit price in your round trip. If you subtract this and this, and you can actually calculate your pain value. So, let me actually spend some time on this cost, because back test, whenever you're back testing, as we discussed in the past, also you should also know that there are some slippages, right? And since we have undermake our back test very realistic, especially when it comes to options. When back testing, I'm saying you see here, I'm saying you bought it at 59.6 and you sold it 58.6 but in real time it doesn't happen. You place an order at 59.6 but that's why we need to, that is called a slippage. Sleepage is what that tells you that you are not able to enter at the price you are planning to enter, so you would enter maybe at some price away from this, right? So you would want to kind of add your costs for it, so that is a cost you pay, isn't it? Because you wanted to enter it, let's say, 100, but you entered it one, not one, that $1 is your cost, because you lost, that is the last opportunity. So there are other things also that makes you, while you're trading, you will feel these difficulties. So when you were creating a back tester, a good back tester should also consider these things. You should also consider clippages. You should also consider transaction costs. So this is why you need to kind of code into your analysis. Profit and loss is not just entry minus exit. You shouldn't do that. Instead, you should also subtract some amount as your trading cost, so that at least your back stretch is a bit closer to reality. So that's what we did here. What we did here is we created, we created something called cost. This is what we did. So we calculated our P and L, but we didn't stop there. We subtracted some part of your P and L, because, but this should be a function of your turnover. Depending on how big your trade is, your costs are going to increase, so I took 1% of the turnover as my cost for that before my P and L was minus 37 and for that trade the turnover is fine and two three. Now my P and L is much worse after I added my cost it's minus nine six, and this is actually reality. There would be scenarios where you would be mildly positive before cost, but after cost you would be loss also. So I wanted to add that also. So I added profit P and L post cost, and actually I added many sets of analysis for you, that is, that is actually for you to explore, because what do you do with back test results? Right, you got your trade sheet with the back test, then what is the use of it until you go ahead and analyze. So that's why I added different levels of analysis for you. Now, first of all, I added one visual analysis for you. It's actually a simple set of code where you plot these things, but this is this is one analysis I want you to do. I'll tell you why. See, in future, once you have multiple strategies, you don't want to go through the code or all the trade sheet or the numbers I gave you. You just extract this image and then just look at this image to understand what had happened. Here it's very clear to me what happened, like I ended at a beginning of the month, because beginning of the month my position is one. Let the exact the another y axis you see is position, position here can be zero or one. So at the beginning of the month my position was one, and almost at end of the month or third week of the month. I exited, so my position came to zero.

Speaker 1  2:10:01  
So, it will tell me how frequently I'm trading, since our entry position entry trigger is just by when it is beginning of the month. It's actually very intuitive for us. There is not much analysis, but sometimes your entry could be by if IV is greater than whatever number. If that is your entry, then if I have this plot, it will tell me maybe I'm entering more in March. It's going to tell me, or maybe I'm entering more when the market is trending up. All these kind of analysis you should do. That's why, at least, I added one example analysis for you. Should always visualize your entry exits by overlaying it on underlying data, you should always have these overlay plots here. I'm, I'm, I had an underlying price plot on top of it. I plotted how my positions are fluctuating here. This is this. I have nothing to do with underlying. I just took an entry based on my month or day of the month, but if you have something based on underlying, then this is going to extract some patterns for you. Then the second thing is now the performance matrix, right? These things you already know, like a standard ones, like how much pay that I made, how many trades I took, what is my win rate, and how long I'm holding the rate. That is actually very important to study, not many people will focus on it at an initial level, but you should. It's not only about how many trades are profit profitable. You should also see how long are you sitting on cash and how long are you actually trading. That is also important. So the next piece of code is going to generate a performance summary sheet for you. Again, this is again simple mathematical calculations based on your trade sheet. You only generated trades data frame and mark to market data frame and round trip, only using those three data frames. We are going to just play with those columns. We are going to create different performance metrics for our analysis. Here I am using trading performance summary, where it's telling me how much PNL I made, how many trades I took, one, how many number of winning trades I have, losing trades, etc. And finally, the profitability, so I think we should take a break here, because when it comes to options trading, you also deal with margin, right? So I have also created analysis at a margin level for you, so I'm thinking, let's take a break here and I'll show you where we are going from here, so these are the outputs we generated and we have our trade sheet and now let's try to let's try to understand how to do this on a triangular and then go for performance analysis, because so if I discuss the same thing what we did on long columns triangle, maybe the repetition will help you understand the code structure better, and then we will study how to add margin, how to add profit and loss, etc. because continuously discussing on code doesn't lead anybody anywhere, and you should actually know the structure. So, let's discuss all the code, but from the point of view of a long triangle. Once we are back from break, let's take 10 minute break. We're going to see all the steps in another notebook, but for a long triangle, so that you know the structure of the code and the flow of the back, just better. Then we will discuss a bit more on over now that I got these numbers in my hand. What do you do with it? What other things I could do. So let's take 10 minutes break. Any questions you have, just type it out in the chat, and we'll just meet in 10 minutes, do Hi everyone. Yes, let's continue. We will discuss the same things we discussed now, but for a strangler, so any doubts you have, just type it out. We will take it right after this lecture. So let's do the same thing for strangle, essentially just one second. Yes, so we're going to deal with SPX and year months, just like long call, but instead of buying at the money, we buy out of the money call and a put on very first trading day of the month, and we close positions one day before the X-ray.

Speaker 1  2:23:13  
I didn't want to change too many things, let's change one parameter, so that because if I change too many things again, the intuition you build so far might not translate to the understanding, so let's change one thing, which is this the entry rule, essentially this PX triangle, right? You buy out of the money, all and out of the money put on the same very first trading day. So let's see how it is done, and once we understand again one more package, then we think about analytics, because anytime you analyze your back test, there are two levels of analysis. You do the first level is trade level analysis, that's what we have been doing so far. What's happening on an average level? What is a trade? What is a win percent? What is a lose percent? When are we entering? But you should also have a view at a strategy level that is a bird-side view you have, where you don't think about how many trades I took all this, but you just have an opinion on the strategy that we are going to see once we discuss the stranglet. Also, so this is the notebook for strangler, and you would quickly realize it just looks like the previous notebook, where you have your same standard imports and you load the same data that you had, which is options data, the same 50,000 rows, and then the same thing you did, you identify key trading days, right, you have your functions that identifies every row, does it belongs to what trading date is here? You are only see first enlarged, but in between you would also see one day before large, one day before expiry, expiry, etc. So the same thing we did, we for underlying data, we just mark it for each day, we. Marked what the this is actually, and we have validated the trading labels, just like we did, but now instead of going for long call, you're going for long triangle, so in long call you stopped at finding at the money contract strike price. Right now you don't deal with at the money, you go beyond at the money and below at the money, so that's what we did. You just need to give some distance here. I'll just like money, Kannam was saying I was taking one contract above the expiry, one contract below the expiry, so it was just finding where the at the money is, and I'm taking one contract above at the money, I'm finding the strike price of one contract about at the money, and finding strike price one contract below that the money. You can also change the way you do it. I made it simple, I just kept it simple, because you, the whole object is to get the flow of the back tester, and it gave me two different, so this is at the money, no, it gave me strikers above and below, so that I can use it for out of the money put and out of the money call for my triangle, but if you're dealing with straddle, you don't do this for straddle, you deal with at the money option only, so you create positions, but one difference is I'll just maybe compare, so that you know the differences much easily. Here we found at the money and created one position, but for stradd or a triangle, you're dealing with multiple positions, so instead of having a single row, single position, it should give you two rows. That's what we did. We created the same thing, the same thing we did here. Instead of long call, we created an empty data frame of long call, and we added positions, but here we add two positions. So you are buying this call, and you're buying call with this strike price, and you're buying put with this strike price, so rest of the things are same. You are going to once you get this data, you are going to add premium column. We just find premium, you have a function get premium, you just call it on each row, so it gives you the premium belongs to each row, that's what it does. So, just like we had a function here, which is set long call, this is set long call.

Speaker 1  2:27:35  
We have a function called setup long strangle, but if you want to make it short instead of direction is going to long, just make it short, but here we are setting up a long strangle. Essentially, it's going to give you this whenever you call this function, it's going to give you two rows, so because you're dealing with two contracts and back test is again exactly the same. You start with empty data frames, you have your function that calculates mark to market, and initially you define your initial parameters, and you start your loop with your start date. The same thing it does, it checks if you have it position now, and it checks if it is a first trading day. If it is true, it's going to create a long strong will strategy for you, and record your trades. If it is not true, and you have a position, it's going to create again. It's going to calculate the current value of the position, and it checks if it is an expiry one day before expiry or not. Just checks, should you exit on this day? If this is true, then it's going to note down the details of the exit and calculate all the P and L and cumulative Pendle, and print out this information for you. It's exactly the same as long call. Only change you have is this function. Instead of using long call strategy, instead of using setup long call use setup long shrink, so this all these factors is stated because in future if you want another strategy, you just need to create this particular function and rest of the things everything in this code stays the same, we don't need to change anything in this also here instead of calling here when you went whenever there is an entry you're calling long strangle here, and saying setup long shrink. If you're maybe you created for long butterfly, just change it to long butterfly, and then call long butterfly function. So it's just a simple function you need to change for any options back test, and rest are all same. It's going to tell you when you entered, when you exited, and just like the previous one, you have 12 trades, because every time you're entering at beginning of the month, and again the same, as you have your round trip details, you have your mark to market details, mark to market base every single day, it's going to show you what is your P and L until whenever you have a position. And now since we wanted to add costs also, just like the previous time, you calculate your P and L, and then you subtract some cost from P and L, the same thing we did, so this is actually sad, because before the cost your P and L is this much, and almost whenever there is negative, you have more and more costs that are adding, but this is the truth. Whenever you are trading, you need to consider the costs, and the same way you visualize your entry exists, you visualize here also. But nothing would change, because your entry exit, irrespective of what strategy or your entry triggers are saying, but now this is where we go beyond what we discussed so far. So far we've been doing trade level analytics. I've added that code in long call only, because long call I've added all scenarios. Long triangle, you're going to actually use the same thing. I'll show you what I did once the back test is done, and trade level analysis is done. I've added something called strategy analytics for you, which actually also considers what is the margin. This makes more sense when you have shots, but still I went ahead and added, because it will calculate what is the margin. So, there are you can see whenever you're dealing with options, for long it is simple, whatever capital that is required means whatever premium you need to buy, that is your margin.

Speaker 1  2:31:33  
If you are buying a premium of $1 and lot size is 50, then 50 is a margin, 50 is the capital, nothing else changes, but whenever you have a short position, then you need to have additional margin, additional positions in your additional capital in your trading account, and this is the standard margins that you need to have in addition to the capital, but these might change depending on contracts you're trading, exchange you're in, and the place you're trading with, but in general, you have something called span margin, you have something called exposure margin. I just added some additional margin because I would want to add some additional, because I don't know where you guys are back teaching, and what contract, so why I added this is so far we have premium for long, if you run it, it just gives you same value of margin and premium, when you run it for a short, then that's where you have additional things that are added, like your margin will be more than the premium you paid for if you are spending $2,980 to buy subcontract, but if you are taking a short position, in addition to this, you also need to maintain certain margin, so this code runs, if you, we are going for short, then this word actually runs, but since we are going for long, it's going, it's giving you the same values, because there is no margin for long trading, and as I was saying, you should have an idea at a strategy level, not always at a trade level, that's why you need to calculate what is your P and L every day, and what is your return? It's not only about what is your return, it's about how your returns are evaluating, and that evolution will give you a peek into how your strategy works in different conditions. Let me give an example. If you remember, we have something called Mark to Market Data Frame, right, where it is noting down what is your panel every single day, so we are going to use the same, and depending on what position you have, if you have a long, if you have a short, if you have a combination of long and short, or created code to consider everything, and essentially, if you have margin, because margin essentially is for short, but even for long I'm just considering the same same name, so that it's easy to understand. It just tells you what is happening every single day, so how your value of your position is changing every single day, so that you know the daily returns. So this we will need it whenever you are trying to plot anything. See, for example, I'll show you how these things are plotted. I'll come back to this again. I'm just moving ahead to show you. So, this is this is essentially what you want to know. How my cumulative returns are really evolving when compared to how the market is changing. This gives you lots of insight on similar example. This is a extreme jump in price. In such case, what is my profit doing? For example, if my market is falling by x percent, how much fall I would see in my cumulative returns. That's essentially what we are doing, so. To go back, I'm trying to find what my daily return is, and when I have daily return, I can calculate cumulative return. So I'm calculating daily and calculating cumulative return to kind of know how my profit and loss are changing every single day. So with this, I plotted this, so just just to get an idea of what, but this would make more sense to you, give you more information when you have different conditions. Here, our condition is simple. We are just saying what happens when you enter on a very first day.

Speaker 1  2:35:31  
If your condition changes, then it might give you more insight, but again, you shouldn't stop here, because when you're talking about options, you shouldn't be carried away by cumulative curves, because for example, initially we didn't get good profit, but if there was an extreme push in initial levels, our P and L would have been much higher, because in accumulative any push initially would compound, right, initially there was not much push in our strategy, so we struggled a bit, but then eventually made money, but cumulative doesn't actually cumulative, you shouldn't focus much. I mean, you should understand how these things are working, but just because your cumulative returns are so and so, you can't go ahead and buy something or go live instead, or in addition to this, you should understand what is happening at a monthly level. Here, I took daily information and trying to plot and understand the behavior, but there are two different things. There are additional analysis I need to do. The very first thing, on an average, what are we doing monthly? Like, monthly, what is obviously my performance, because options we are dealing with monthly options contract, so it's quite obvious to see what months are bad. There might be some monthly pattern that we might uncover. We might realize every year in Feb or in March, I'm losing. If you realize that you don't need to trade this strategy on that month, on in addition to that, you should also see how the losses are, how the broad earnings. I'll show you how the, how these two things are done. So this particular code will be the same thing, whatever we have, it just takes the underlying data only, and since you have daily returns, it just samples to monthly, and then it's just a single line of code. Rest of the things are how we beautify the plot. This is essentially what's happening. So every month, what is happening, and there are only few months that are positive. You see, everything is red, but it's just that scaled as per profit or loss, but I could see this is these two are negative months, and these two only four five months are negative, but essentially what's happening is whenever it is positive, it was actually positive, it is like when you're losing it, losing 150 400 1500 but when you're gaining, you gain 14,012 155,300 etc. So that's how this is structured. And this makes more sense if you have more years, right? You can also customize it. I just, the heat map, the scale I gave as profit and loss. Maybe you would want to mark positive things as green, negative things as red. Anything is fine, but if you run this on, let's say, five years of data, then you can uncover more patterns, but the code doesn't change, even if you have five years, 10 years, or one year. The same code you can run, just need to run the entire back test on five years of data, I ran it on one month of data, but you can just expand that. As I was saying, not always, you just need to focus on returns. You should also see what is happening at the last level, the drawdown. That's the piece of code. Does it calculate what is the drawdown? Drawdown is nothing, but from the peak, how much are we losing? Let me go back to the plot. If you see, we made a peak here, but then we lost money. So I'm not talking about losses, but I'm talking about the decline you see from highest point at any time. If I am studying in on march 3, then I know from this point, from Feb, I'm only losing money, and in fact, I lost money till May, and then I started to make money. Then again, from Akash, I started losing money until November, then I started making money. So, there are there are places where we are actually losing money, or losing value, I must say. So, I should have an opinion on how these things are turning out. So, for that, we have marking drawdown analysis, which will give you this kind of a plot. This plot tells you many things. I just created this plot in such a way that. It will tell you how many days you are in loss.

Speaker 1  2:40:04  
When I say loss, how many days there is a drawdown. See, this doesn't mean you made loss, it just means from this date till this date you never made any money. So this will tell you how long. Here I'll see two months I am actually losing money. Then again, I made profit. Then again, for a couple of months I lost money. This will actually lose an idea. Okay, if there are a bad scenario for the strategy, I would see it for a couple of months. That is one information it's going to give me, and the second information is if I am losing money, how bad that loss could be. You see, this energy shade of vertical line, vertical box. This is where you lost most of the money on a surface level. It might not look like you lost most of the money here, but it is any percentage terms. So this is a period where you lost almost 99.9% Here, I've also printed out it will give you what is the maximum loss. You lost almost entire capital, but that is nothing, not a concern, which is a common policy when you're dealing with long call. Right, what happens if you have a call option, a long position in a call. Worst case, you will lose the amount you paid to buy the call, the premium, right? So that's what happened here. There is a deterioration, and we lost money. But if you want to see in this period from Feb to March, how the market had happened, just add a line of underlying. Maybe we can actually go back and see. Also, in fact, that's the place where there is a sudden increase, and then there is actually lots of volatility. There is a sudden spike, and also a drop. Also, but the drop - the majority of the drop happened after March, but before that, there was a spike, and then drop also. Yes, majority happened between February, March, so the drop had happened between February, possibly that is why you have a long position, long call, which actually lost money, so that's why whenever there is a drop in the underlying, you see the strategy that is based on your call option also lost value, that's how you try to uncover some patterns and also validate whether the strategy is doing as expected or not, but as I said, there are other drawdowns also. You see, there is a minor drawdown here, but quickly market recovered. So this plot will tell you how many, how long would you be in a loss when there is a loss, and if there ever a worse scenario, which is maximum drawdown, this particularly shaded by this region. How was the loss could be? This is the maximum loss. So that's essentially how this code is structured, so that it will give you multi dimensional analysis of your particular strategy, and but again, the regular things, right? What is your CAGR shark? This is a added, but I don't feel it actually makes sense to discuss, like, have don't be very particular about sharp ratio here, because long options many times you, when they, something goes wrong, you lose most of the value, so sharp doesn't tell you anything, but I just added as a standard metric, because it's good to know what is happening with this, and just, just because you have certain numbering sharp, but that doesn't give you complete detail of strategy, because the, we are talking about long call option, where you can actually lose 100% of your strategy, so that's why there's CAGR volatility, these things will give you a peek into how these things are working, but it shouldn't be a decision factor for you. But more important thing is understanding how these things are behaving, that is the most important part. So, let's go to the PPD. There is one more additional thing I have created for you. I'll just take it up right at the very end, but as I said, we were discussing how we could create long triangle, and that was discussed, and we've seen the results that is there. You, if you want, you can also create for long straggle. You can motivate it around as an exercise. It's a simple thing for strangle, you have two contracts, which is at the money call input for straddle.

Speaker 1  2:44:26  
Again, you have two contracts instead of going at the money. Sorry, going out of the money, you deal with at the money contracts. You can actually figure it out. I added a note in the note behind the notebook also for you to easily do it, but you can do it as an exercise if you want to do as an exercise, but as I was saying, you should always have an idea on trade level analytics, that is there, we already know these metrics, which we are there for any kind of trading strategy, and it will give a quick snap of what is happening, but it will statistically. It would make more sense if you have three years of backtest, five years of backtest at least, but more important than not, we should also need to know strategy level analytics, especially as I was saying, especially what is happening when you add your slippage and margins, and how the maximum load on this is the most important part, because when you do all this back test, right, one thing that is pretty sure is you might not exactly see the same results in the future, also, but only thing that is there in your hands is how you handle your risk, which only possible when you understand your maximum drawdown. So, coming back to what are all the changes you can actually make to this code? Initial condition, we added entry trigger is whether today is a first trading day or not. You can actually change it, instead of that column as an entry trigger, you can give another column, you can calculate whether IV is greater than RV, and then create a column of true or false, and then you can write codes in such a way that instead of checking if the first trading days with the current trading day is first day of the month, you check if the today the value of IV is greater than RV, you can, you can, you can do anything with this particular structure of code, and not only that, as I said, there are many people who would want to use stop loss and profit target for their back tests, so that also you can do here. As I was saying, if you want, you can add risk management, stop loss, and take profit. I'll show you how it is done. I did code for it. Let me go there. The same notebook, the long call notebook. I've also added adding risk management strategy. So here I gave a example of how you're going to use a stop loss and take profit. So let's see how it is done. See, I've added, I've noted down the code, the same code, but I've added in comments, so that if you want, you can uncomment it and run it. But again, just to revise the same piece of code, you have your initial data frames that are empty, then add a mark to market, note down your initial condition, and here is where, before you start your low, just define your stop loss and take profit percentages. Once you define this, while entering, you don't care about stop loss take profit if your entry condition meets, but when you're exiting, last time we checked whether the exit condition means the last trading day is a day before expiry, so whether today is a day before expiry is the single condition we are checking now. I added two more conditions. This is, this is how easily you can add more conditions to this score. Instead of checking single condition, I added more conditions. I checked whether if my loss is less than shop loss percentage. In that case, also I would want to. I'm sorry. Let me go back to this. Yes, in exit I've added three conditions. Now, in addition to exit, based on what day it is, I added stop loss and profit. If you're losing more than your amount at stop loss, then also it will exit, or if your profit is more than your take profit, then also it could exit. So then the rest of nothing will change. Only this will change when you want to make changes in the way you exit, right? So that's how modular the code is. You any condition, for example, you might be wondering what would happen, what, what if you want to change the entry condition?

Speaker 1  2:48:42  
Then this is an exit block, right? Just go to entry block and see what is happening here. This is your entry logic. You have two conditions, and if these two are met, you're entering, but now since you want to change your entry condition, you just add that condition, this, if whatever the condition will be. If you, as I was saying, if you want to have an entry based on implied volatility, when you have this data, the data you have. Just let me show you the input data. You have this input data, right? You can play with this. For example, you can say if my call delta is less than 0.5 then you can actually add it in that condition. If you want, you can add more columns. Also, you can add column of realized volatility and compare IV and realized volatility, and then just add that as your entry here. If you have one more column that is realized volatility. Then you can change this entry here. Instead of this condition, you will write if under the data column name, whatever column IV greater than RV, any condition you want, you can add it. There are other things also. People might say, I would want to deploy it. Wednesday, in such case, they add a column that tells you what day of the week it is, and then add this condition: if today is Wednesday, then enter the trade, or else don't, so you can, you can be as much creative as you can, and there is lots of flexibility here, so that's pretty much it, essentially, if you want, you can optimize, you can change anything, and yeah, I think we can discuss on, and if, if you, if you have any idea in mind on options, and if you want to implement, then you can just let me know, I will tell you right away how you can change this code, and any questions you can just type it out. The questions, maybe we can spend 510 minutes on questions and see if I could give you more clarity. The question by Arvind: How do you organize all your data sets? For example, say you pick five strategies, how do you go about managing it? I personally, actually, let me see. Actually, I'm logged in from another laptop. I don't think I have it here, or as I would have shown you, I have - I have huge maps of these folders that deals with hundreds of strategies, where I just do it in my server, or sometimes I run it in my local system, and then if I feel right, then I push it to server. But generally, how we do it is you create a nested folders only, that is the easiest way to deal with it, and let code figure it out. I mean, let's say if you have 10 strategies, maintain 10 different folders, and in each folder have standard folder structure like data back test performance metrics, data back test performance metrics. That is the standard I follow, but yeah, I mean that is what that's one more way you handle it. But as you move forward, it is a common thing. You have hundreds of data sets, I mean, we have to be organized there. Carlos asked, when we backed us using options, what is the percentage of equity that we use per trade? Because using 100% of the cash or equity could be deadly in terms of options. You're right. In fact, you don't go with a single trade with 100% of your equity, that's where your position sizing comes in. Right, risk management is not always about stop loss and all this. It's, it actually, risk management stops at how much money are you risking fundamentally? Like Carlos is saying, don't put 100% of your capital in a single trade or a single strategy, spread your strategy, certain capital across. But then the very common question, or next question, would be, yeah, it makes sense to spread the capital, but then, how? How do I spread my capital? Most intuitively, you might fail to add more capital to profit making strategies and less capital to loss making strategies, but that is wrong, that doesn't work most of the times, because every strategy will be positive in few market conditions and negative in other market conditions.

Speaker 1  2:53:10  
There would be some strategies which works best when there is market fall. So, depending on your market condition, you need to ration your capital across different trading strategies, but if you want a single line answer to how do you do it, you need to create a function of volatility over diary returns. How volatile your returns are. Let me kind of clarify it. Whenever you have a back test, you were back test results. It's okay if you're making loss, also, but not okay if your returns are extremely volatile. That means if you're not able to predict how your strategy is going to behave, that means if the returns of your backtest strategy are extremely volatile, that's where you put least amount of capital, because it's all about predictability, isn't it? This is, think of it like a trader you're hiring, and I think you are a trade manager, and you have 100 traders, just like 100 strategies. You would want to bet on a trader who has predictable results. If it is positive, then yeah, you might, you might put a bit more money, but even if he's a positive trader, but his results are volatile, that means you know by end of the year he would be positive, but you don't know month on month whether he would be positive or not, then you shouldn't bet on the strategy, even in month on month it should have an average return, so you should have some predictability, so you need to think in these lines. Then I hope Carlos, I gave you some context to think about. Shreya says, Varun, could you please use VRP in back testing SPI option sharing based on historical data? I'm so sorry, I don't know what. VRP means let me Google it. VRP is it a code or are you talking about vehicle routing problem optimized daily routes to are you talking about an optimization Shreyas and let me.. I don't know what this VRP is. I'm so sorry, but if you could write it, what it is, maybe I could share my thoughts, but clearly I don't know what this VRP is. Then Manikandan says, in our previous class we learned after taking the trade and before exiting the trade, we should also know how to handle the trade. Could you please shed some light on it, and any resources to learn and get good at it, so handling the trade. In fact, you can go at a theoretical level, but I would recommend you to stick to taking decisions on how the strategy behaved in the past. For example, I will stick to this very strategy here. Let me go to the plots we had, so here one thing we observed when we are having a drawdown understanding. Here one thing we observed was there's something that happened in this month that resulted in extreme drawdown. In fact, even when the market recovered, my strategy never recovered. So this is one window that tells me I need to go deep and study what happened in the market. How is this phase of market different? Because let me just pull this here when I am when the market is falling, I'm losing money, which makes sense, right? I have a long call, if market is falling, I would lose, but here market fell, and my, my model also, or my strategy also fell, which also makes sense, but in this scenario, why the market go up, but still I lost money. So this is where you would need to investigate, and then make a note. Then it will tell you there could be something that had happened at a political level, or at an economic level, or at a fundamental level that resulted in this diversion, because with long corruption should actually closely hug what's happening in underlying, but there is a divergence here. So, if you could figure out the reason for it, because not everything is statistical every single time, you there would be a solid fundamental reason for this to have happened. If you figure that out, then you take it as an input to optimize your trade. How do you optimize your trade when they're saying scenario that happened in the market, then you deploy the lesser capital, or you stop trading for it. That's how you optimize your trades between once you took a position. Hope that answered Raghavendra asks.

Speaker 1  2:57:57  
Great Python code for back testing. I'm curious. Okay, do yeah. I'm curious. Have you experimented with white coding or agent to care power ideas for this kind of option sharing? I did. I mean, not experimenting. I do use, I do use Agenda AI, and I do use, I do use LLMs for my code. In fact, I think part of this code was generated with the help of Charge GB. I don't know which, but I think probably the plot spot only. Yeah, this plot spot I will show you what I coded manually and what I've actually used LLMs, but this was done long back. This particular notebook I created in 2025 if not, yeah, 2025 March, somewhere around 2025 March, I used it, but all the practice, you see, this was virally created, there was no AI used, but when I was creating these plots, right, because then these elements were not that great with coding, yes, this also only yes. When I use this heat map, right, this is where I use charge of the prompts to create it when I have my own thing, but I wanted it to look beautiful, or at least less jarring, and that's why I printed out a table, and also this. So, yes, right, these days I'm only using Char GPT to code, I'm not particularly coding every single line, but the way I use Charity would be different from people who doesn't know to code, that's certainly there, but I just write some pseudo code and give it to Charge GPT, and now it, now that it understands me a lot, now that all the threads I open in Chat GPT knows me well, they give me code I want, and I just now most of the code doesn't look like what you have here, it just looks, you know, in another structure, because I use a to code, yes, and when you talk about agentic a powered IDs, I know. Yeah, I experimented, because, but I don't use them. Yeah, something very easy, you guys. Also, can experiment is you can go to Google Collab nowadays. Google Collab ID is coming with his own agentic chat window in it, so if you open a Google Collab, then you have your.. let's see if I could open one and show you guys. Let me try to open this. If I could, since Ravindra is asking agentic power, I read that that's in another email, not sure I'll be able to do it, but let me try. Okay, give me a second. Let me try to create one in this particular login, I don't even have storage to open this. Let's see this main division, but this, this is just a such an old email. I have this notebooks from 2325 Okay, this was one notebook I had in the past, but let me see. Yes, I don't know. I'm.. I don't have anything new with Google Collab these days, but yeah, this.. this was something I created a long, long, long back. It should give you a function. Yeah, you see it here. So, if you want to code, just open a new notebook and just type it here, and just allow this, and it's going to give you a window. So, for example, maybe explain me this notebook

Speaker 3  3:02:06  
and created long pipe and I don't remember it does

Speaker 1  3:02:17  
so you can actually use this Google Collab, and within it you have your AI. Then you can just type it out. This is such a heavy notebook, so it's just explaining me what it does. You can also kind of maximize this, put it on the right, and use it. It will also create things for you. You know what, I can ask it to create a cell, create a data frame, and print it with dummy data. I can actually ask it. It takes over our notebook. I can ask it anything. I can ask it to take a note, take something and plot. See, it's actually doing.. I'm not doing anything. It automatically added a code for me, and now it is asking me, should I run it or not. So, if I say yes, accept and run it, it will run it, and then it will display something. See, you can use Google Collab if you're beginning to use AI for your coding. You can open it. See, it just did for me. I can ask it to plot, right? Plot it, so I asked you to plot, and it will generate the code for me. Let's say, is this working? See, yeah, I think it gave me a plot, and then I just ask it to run, and it does everything for me. I, you can also do this. It already brought it, so you can start with this. You can ask, use Y Finance, get Apple prices for last one year, and plot it. See, these days it's actually very useful to use AI when you're coding. I'm only showing you the simple examples, but I'm not sure if you could create options back to it. That might sound highly unlikely at this moment, but if you are good at prompting, if you could give better prompts, then you can create anything. See, now it's actually doing by itself. I'm not doing anything. So it plotted your finance price for us, so that's how you're going to use Raghavend. I hope this is a bit useful to you. Then Shreya says volatility risk premium. Yes, you can. As I was saying, now we have a column of IV. Just create a column of RV, also, which is realized volatility or historical volatility, and from there you can go ahead, you can say if IV is 10% more than RV, taken it something like that. Yes, I think this was answered. Maybe I will show you it in the code, since couple of students are asking the same thing. So, when we have an entry, when we have this as input, we have n number of columns. Any new condition you want, just add a new column. That's essentially what I was doing. It was telling you how put option IV, you have call option IV as columns, just add one more column, one more column as historical IV, and get the historical IV. You can also, you can get it, or you can calculate historical IV is nothing but underlying returns, standard deviation of underlying values returns that you can calculate, you can source it somewhere, and once you have it, premium is IV minus historical volatility, so with that you can add any condition, as I was saying, whenever you are entering here. Yes, whenever you're entering here, instead of this, I might add one more condition. Here we are, we are reading underlying, but since you have options, this one imported options monthly. Just write a condition. Maybe I will just write it something like this. You will write a conditions IV entry. I will just write, add a new call, new column entry variance premium, and my thing would be I would want to see if options. Sorry, I'm using a new laptop these days, so not that fast in typing IV greater than or equal to 1.1 times options monthly are we something like this, and this will give this will create a column of true and false, and then in when I'm entering, I will just add a condition here saying instead of this I might add one more new condition that is equal to equal to true, so if it is true, then it will take a variance rate. If it is not, it will. That's how simple it is. And you don't need to change anything. That's how the code is created.

Speaker 1  3:07:29  
You don't need to change anything else in the code. You just need to add like this. And one more thing, here we are dealing exiting. Let's say in your exit here you are entering if it is true, and you exit if it is false, because if there is an other scenario, you exit right. So here, whenever you are exiting, then instead of checking this, you check this is equal to false, and instead of adding reason as expiry, you add variance, that's it. Then hope I answered Trayers and Jesse Raghavendra asks, Could you please provide any source example websites such as Quantified Strategies, where I can source and fight great option trading strategies? Great option trading strategies. You see, maybe you can start by reading mr. Yuan Sinclair's books. That is one way to go about it. And why don't you check this digital trade option? Traditional trade, this is one website. This is actually extremely good website. In fact, you can go to their YouTube channel. Tasty Trade is a YouTube channel. I know why it's not allowing me to enter now, but yeah, Taishy Trade is one thing where there are hundreds of strategies, in fact, they explain you the, in fact, any strategy they're going to talk about theory, and then they talk about strategy. This is one website, but sadly, I don't know why I'm unable to open now. But yeah, you can, you get, yeah, Trade Street, Trade is one place where you can find resources, can find webinars, etc. So this is one place I used to source option strategies long, long back, not at this moment, but long, long back. Oh, yes, yes. So Jesse, yes, so he is one of the founders of Tasty Trade, so this is what I'm talking about, so yeah, Tom sounds off, so he's a great guy and a relatable trader too, so yeah, so you see Tasty Life he. Is one of the main founders of Tastytrade, so you can, yes, find some options there. Yes. Hamer questions. Okay. Jesse claims he's been probable because of his videos, but I can guarantee you say I was profitable because of, for some of his videos, yeah, because they actually push you to look at the holistic market, understand market micro structure, and then have an intuition on options models. Yes, that's a very good resource. And thanks, Jesse, for backing me. Yes, hope it's been helpful. Thanks. Thanks for spending time with me for the last five lectures. Any doubts you have, if you want to contact me, you can find it and find me in LinkedIn, or you can contact me through our support also, and we can connect over email, and not only now, not only after you pass it away, if at any time any discussion on options or industries on markets, on any discussion on automation, option trading, quantity finance. I'm always interested. So, thank you, thank you guys. Thanks a lot, and I hope you have an amazing options career, and yeah, thanks a lot, thanks guys. Bye bye.

