Speaker 1  0:15  
Hello, I see that people are still joining the the main room. So I'll wait for a little bit before I start.

Speaker 1  0:32  
Okay, I think, oh, no, still increasing the number.

Speaker 1  0:43  
A good morning to you and good afternoon to others, and good evening to yet others. It seems to be a big, very well attended class. Thank you all for joining the quantitative momentum workshop. My name is Ernie Chen. I am the founder and chairman of capital QTS Capital Management, which is a hedge fund I founded in 2011 but in recent years I have also, I have mainly been focusing on a FinTech or AI tech startup called predict now.ai which actually is more of a consulting company that help traders and asset managers maximum, maximize their benefit from AI as how to use AI to help their trading and asset management practice. So you know, you may also find that of interest. I am, have been an author of, actually five books, the most well known being the quantitative Trading Book, which is currently in second edition, and actually a paperback version is coming up this already, so you can order it a paperback version. The virtue of that is that it is half the price of the hardcover. So paperback you can order from Amazon already. Please check it out. And most of the material from today's and tomorrow's lecture actually, however, come from the algorithmic trading book. So the momentum strategies and also mean reverse strategy. You know, are getting a deep dive in this book, algorithmic trading. So this is the book if you if you want a reference book for the lectures. Actually the second book is the one that you you should look at. The first book is good to have because it's easiest to understand. Now I also the most recent book I've written is called generative AI.

Speaker 1  3:07  
Or trading. There's a quite a bit of a latency here. Maybe I should have typed instead of draw. Let's see if I have a typing option here. No, it doesn't Okay. Well, how to draw? Generally. Generative, AI for trading, oops,

Speaker 1  3:47  
n as that mansion, I will just sympathize as a management as am.

Speaker 1  4:00  
That is the book that you want to have if you want to turn your ideas into a back test program or even live trading program, very efficiently and as well how to use the latest deep learning techniques to help your trading. But you know, it is, it is interesting to look at, but it's not really focusing on the materials today. Finally, I have a blog, EP chen.boxport.com, which has still have active, you know, Q and A going on, even though I started it in 2006 so it has been 20 years since I started this blog, and people still go and read stuff on it, I have a lot of ideas and back and forth Q and A that is captured on that block, so I welcome you to post your questions after the workshop, if you have any on that block, and we will continue the conversation you. So some of you may find it surprising that the language of choice in this course is MATLAB, but in this day and age of LLM large language models, it actually doesn't matter what language you program in and what language our code is in, because you can easily convert every code to another code to another language, almost without any error. Just upload whatever code that I have in matapp and tell your favorite chat bot to turn it into Python, into our, into Java, into C, into whatever language you're comfortable with, and that we've done similarly, because a lot of the data that I provide to you are in a MATLAB binary format called dot mat, dot m, a T. You know you might want to write a Python program and ask your chatbot to convert in MATLAB, because otherwise Python cannot read it dot mat binary file, just like MATLAB will have a hard time reading a pickle file in Python. The reason I use Matlab is that it is a recognized language for high end engineering. If you go to Boeing, if you go to Intel, or you know, other semiconductor designing company, the Nvidia, you find a lot of people using MATLAB, and surprisingly, even in machine learning, I have been told that MATLAB is Professor Jeff Hinton, which is regarded as the father of deep learning. That's his favorite language. Matlab is for you know, until the recent proliferation of open source software, MATLAB was really a very polished language. In fact, the numpy library of Python was derived from the syntax of MATLAB. So is, you can regard MATLAB as the sort of the parent of the numpy package, and I have found that it is much more efficient and easier to program in MATLAB than in Python. You will not have all this installation problem, library problem, and the MATLAB library have far fewer bugs than Python programs, so I highly recommend MATLAB, but hey, you don't want to learn the language just for this course, fine, use your chat bot to do translation. Some people ask whether r is as good as MATLAB. Well, I would say R and Python are very similar in their merits. Both are open source language. They are free. MATLAB costs 150 bucks. But hey, I say if you can't afford 150 bucks, you should perhaps not go down the trading route, because you're going to lose a lot more than 150 bucks. R and Python are similar. I don't have a preference, although most machine learning libraries are now written in Python. So if I had to choose, I would pick a Python, but I picked MATLAB because, you know, it was always the more polish language. I regard it as in an analogy is the iPhone to the Android. Android being similar to Python, and iPhone is similar to MATLAB because it's polish. It's a closed system. It costs more often time, but it's worth it. So I'm glad to see that some of you already programmed. Thank you very much. So Excellent. Okay, let me see if there any other questions, by the way, during the lecture this this workshop, please feel free, as you some of you already have to pose your question continuously. Do not wait until the end. I oftentimes look at the Q and A bot and answer any questions that that come through the bot, right? And so don't you don't have to wait until the end.

Speaker 1  8:56  
So there are many ways of developing trading strategies. Some people, obviously are discretionary traders. They trade by intuition or the instinct. Others use a data mining machine learning approach. They say, I have no clue what would work. So let me create 150 technical indicators, fundamental indicators, economic indicators, whatever, and then apply machine learning to find out if any group of them are predictive of the future. That's a data mining machine learning approach. But in this course, we take a third approach, which is actually much more common among quantitative traders. We take what we would now call a causal approach. A causal approach differs from a data mining approach in that it is very much like a doing physics or doing any kind of science. We want to we first propose a causal model of why prices move as they do. This is going to be a predictive model, right? So we want to propose that Under this circumstance, the future price is going to move up or you're going to move down. But we also want to explain why. Why do you think that this price will move right so? So Newton, see that, you know, if you sit under an apple tree, sooner or later, you head will get hit by an apple. That is the causal model that but, but that's not a model. That's an observation. You sit under apple tree, and long enough and the apple drop on the head, but that is just a phenomenon, just like, oh, you you know, if the price is down, and you wait long enough, the price will go back up. I don't know how long one minute, one day, one month, or is it one year, but you know, the index is going to go back up. Has gone back up historically. But that's not a model. That's a phenomenon. What causes the price of revert? For example, what causes the apple to drop? Well, Newton proposed that it is because of gravity. They have a whole theory about how gravity move, and because of this model, they predict not only that the apple will drop on your head, but that the moon will circle the Earth and it won't fly away anytime soon, and that the Earth move around the sun. And you can calculate exactly, you know what from the amount of you know from the seasons and and so forth. You can calculate the speed. You can calculate all kinds of things based on that model. So the model doesn't just explain the phenomenon you observe, but it will explain other things too. That is the core causal model. That is the old fashioned scientific method dating back from, I guess, Newton or even Galileo. That is the approach we take to quantitative trading. And so we want to understand what causes momentum. We don't just observe that, oh, there is trending behavior in crypto, oh there's trending behavior in futures, oh there's trending behavior in stocks. That's just a phenomenon. It's like, Oh, I've observed that apple falling on people's head, but it doesn't allow you to make other prediction if you just observe them. We want to have a causal model of momentum such that we can use that model to make predictions in context that we have not observed anything before. That's the scientific approach, and that approach focuses on a phenomenon called the persistence of row returns in futures. We'll explain more later. Row returns essential central to understand the causal model of momentum, particularly in the few in the futures market. Of course, it doesn't apply to the stock market. There's no There's no row return in stock market, but there's an analog analog. There's an analog in the stock market, and that is called factor return. So if you believe that there's momentum in stock market is most likely because of factor returns, the persistence of factor returns. And then there is another kind of momentum that is the slow acceptance and diffusion analysis and acceptance and interpretation, particularly of news, new information, events driven trading. That kind of trading, we'll find out, is out of favor. It has a very severe alpha decay.

Speaker 1  13:51  
And then there is a third category, a third course of momentum that is applicable to various institutional vehicles such as index fund, mutual fund, hedge fund, by hedge fund, I mean levered investment vehicles and ETF. Levered ETF, they are particular to these kind of institutional vehicles, either levered vehicles or vehicle driven by retail investors, or vehicle that are indexed to a particular index. There are reasons why their momentum driven by these institutional investment vehicles, and we will explain why, why they are sometimes forced to buy and sell asset, and because of that force, and by saying why, it will cause a sort of contagion that affect your holding, even if you are not running a hedge fund, even if you're not buying a lever ETF, even if you are not holding a mutual fund, the fact that these institutional investors are forced to buy and sell will affect your holding. Maybe you are just happily, happily holding the spy, the s and p5 100 index in your account. Right? You're not levered. You're not running a hedge fund. But what these funds, these investors, do, will affect your passive holding, and that then it will cause momentum at certain time. And that is why we want to understand it, and we want to model it. And because of that model, we can make certain prediction that turn out to be true some of the time. So when I say causal model in finance, I have to create have mega per caveat. You, if you if Newton make a causal model of gravity, it is always true. The sun goes up every day. It doesn't go up nine days out of 10 days. It goes up 10 days out of 10 days. In physics, the noise in the model is minimal. Maybe there's quantum effect, maybe that it doesn't go up exactly the same time because of certain minute orbital perturbation. Maybe there's an asteroid find nearby and it disrupts the Earth orbit a little bit. So yeah, there is small amount of noise. Maybe it doesn't go up exactly at 701 every day. Maybe sometimes go up 701 plus 10 millisecond. But generally speaking, the noise is much lower than the signal. But that, as you could probably guess, that is not true in finance, there's a huge amount of noise. The signal is what we want to create this causal model for. But the causal model acknowledge that there's a huge amount of noise in finance. So the signal to noise ratio is very low in finance. So even if you have a causal model. It doesn't work 10 times out of 10. You say, Oh, Under this circumstance, there's going to momentum. Is it always true? No, is it true nine times out of 10? No, I wish, but it's not. Is it true one times out of 10? Probably not even that well. I mean, actually, not that. I take it back. Is it true five times out of 10 times? Yes, probably it is usually all our causal model, usually true just about 50% because, of course, if it's true less than 50% this is nonsense, right? You should trade opposite. But if it is true 110% Well, that's great, but it is true just about 50% maybe from 50 to 60% of the time. That is how much accuracy you can expect any kind of model. In finance, if you can generate an accuracy prediction between 50 to 60% you are in business, because I've read that, for example, a anonymous Renaissance technologies Manager, Portfolio Manager has said that their edge is measured in decimal place, above 50% but because they trade so often, a slight edge is going to make a high Sharpe ratio. So while we may not be able to trade as often as some of the high frequency traders, so we can't afford a accuracy that is only 50% plus a few seismo plays, you know. So we have our sweet spot, you know, maybe 55% will will take it. Can we expect 100% accuracy in the causal model? Because there's a huge amount of noise that can affect it. So that is the difficulty

Speaker 1  18:25  
of a causal modeling in finance. On the flip side, on the other hand, if you don't have a causal model, and you merely apply a machine learning approach, a data mining approach, to find signals, that's a problem is that oftentimes, what you're observing, again, because of the low signal to noise ratio, what you are observing are noise, what you're building a model on, is noise. That's not good either, right? Whatever your pattern that you think you observe could be just random fluctuation you because you don't have a a causal model. So it is hard to tell what is noise and what signal from a machine learning approach. So that is why, in this particular course, we deal with a causal model. Now there's a way. There are many ways to prevent you from, you know, using a machine learning approach and learning noise rather than signal, but that belongs to another course that takes about 12 hours to explain. But in this, in our course, we are not taking a machine learning approach. We are taking a causal modeling approach. And there is a lot of things to talk about, in momentum, in causal modeling of momentum. So there are two questions, does HFT use Matlab. HFT does not use any language that is not compiled. HFP, pretty much have to use C. Sometimes they even have to program the chip directly using a programmable chip to achieve the strategy because of the low latency. Uh, what are factor returns? Factor returns are the dominant explanation for soft movement. For example, the most important factor is market return. You say, Why is vanvide going up? Oh, that's because of the market factors. The index going up. Why is and there are other factors, for example, why is the NVIDIA go up, but some small SMR conductor stock go down? Well, that is because of the size factor. People are favoring size big company rather than small company. Those are factors we will explain more, hopefully tomorrow, not today. Today, we will focus on futures. And then there's a fun, fun question, in the era of quant trading, why are not many physics PhD holders among Wall Street solids? Well, I don't know that is true. They are, you know, some of the best traders are either physicists, computer science or mathematicians. Those three disciplines are pretty much we, you know, essentially we learn the same two sets. So I don't know that. You know, there is a particular deficit of physicists or computer scientists or mathematicians, although, you know, in more recent years, people just go directly because they are a proliferation of financial engineering. Degree master in financial engineering. So a lot of people say, Why, if my objective is to work in Wall Street, why do I have to spend my time studying a hard subject such as physics and then trying to learn finance rather? Rather I should just go directly into a master of quantitative finance program and go get a shot. So in the old days, there are no master of quantitative finance program, so you have to go to work and watch it through other STEM degrees, such as physics, math and computer science. But now you don't have to. You can go directly to a a quantitative finance or financial engineering program. That is the reason why many of the younger traders you know go through a more direct route, and then what? Oh, so there's a deep question here. How do you estimate unknown, confounded impact, but that is very difficult. So when we say causal model, I use it in a very loose sense. I do not actually mean that you have to necessarily write a causal graph and then find all the confounding factor and so forth. I know that there are people who do that. For example, Professor Marcus departed, wrote papers about that, but I have yet to see that in actual practical application that is so easy to find the only thing we can do in

Speaker 1  23:15  
so, you know, if you want to develop a proper causal model in other fields such as medicine, you say, Does insulin prevent diabetes? Right? You can have a control group. Is a one group I give diabetes insulin, and one group I is a randomized trial, and the control group I give a placebo and see if, every time you do this, the group that was given insulin has lower diabetes incidence than the group that got placebo. That is called a, you know, a potential outcome approach to causal modeling, which I'm more comfortable with, easier to understand. But in finance, you cannot run a control experiment so easily. You cannot say, hey, well, market participants today, if you don't know what you're doing, don't trade. Let me see if the institutional investors are going to actually drive the momentum in oil. Let's say you have a hypothesis about, oh, this oil momentum is due to institutional investor only, not to retail investors. Let's say you have this hypothesis. You cannot go out and say, Hey, today, let's not trade. All the institutional traders don't trade. Let's see if my hypothesis is correct. You can't do that right. What you can find are natural experiments, just as in many economic field, where, because of certain accidental events, maybe the institutional investor are not prevented from trading, there are certain natural experiments of A. But for example, during the financial crisis in 2008 they banned short selling for a period of time. And if your theory is that short selling cause momentum, well, in that period, short selling is banned, and you will see if the momentum increase or defeat. Those are they are natural experiments that you can observe, just like in economics, but you cannot easily in economics, as well as in finance, is not easy to perform a proper control experiment, and so causal modeling is very difficult to verify. So we think of causal modeling as an approach, but we do not actually practice the rigorous version of it.

Unknown Speaker  25:43  
Okay? So let's see.

Speaker 1  25:50  
So there is a last opinion is that trading can never be taught.

Speaker 1  26:02  
How much the psychology and strategy? What? How much role does strategy and psychology have overall in developing good model? So I don't agree that trading can never be taught. Yeah, I don't know that I agree with that statement. So what you can say is that you cannot just take a course and suddenly take whatever I taught you. We have six hours of this workshop. Don't believe that you should not expect that after this exam, you take some of the strategy, and then you go on trade and you become rich. If that were the case, I wouldn't be teaching this course. In fact, that is true for any cause, any trading cost out there, if you if they will teach you exactly what you need to make do to make money. It will not be taught. You can believe it, because what do I gain out of doing that? What you can be taught is the higher principles. It teach you. It's like the old saying, you know, I I don't give you the fish that you can eat, but I teach you how to fish. These strategies that I teach are supposed to be illustrative. It is like giving you a fishing ward or fishing hope it teaches you how to find out strategy, how to test strategies, how to have ideas, how to have fundamental ideas, how to approach strategy building, but it doesn't teach you strategy that can be profitable in a shrink wrap basis. Now, some of the strategies that I teach can actually become affordable if you add some bells and whistles to it. Maybe you can add the stop loss. Maybe you can increase the look back. Maybe you can change a rule, add a rule or subtract a rule, that they can certainly be made into a powerful personality. I can promise you that, because I actually have been trading one. I don't, I won't tell you which one, one of the strategy I teach you, I have been trading in our hedge fund for more than 10 years. It's still trading, but I won't tell you which one, but it is obviously not the exact same strategy that we trade. It has many, many better means over the 10 years, we don't just, you know, implement it and go to bed and take a nap. We every year we add bells and whistles to it, right? So that is the attitude towards strategy building, is that you always have to improve it based on actual trading, based on the new regime, based on new technology, new techniques, constant improvement.

Speaker 1  28:54  
Okay, so in that sense, strategy trading, you know, developing trading strategy can be taught, but it is like learning how to fish instead of just, you know, looking at a book and and pick out a strategy that then trade it. Well, the role of psychology in trading is that you want to exploit other people's psychological bias. You don't want to have psychological bias yourself because you are quantitative trader. You should follow the model. You should not let your emotion override the model. But you want to take advantage. You want to develop model that take advantage of other people's fear and greed. You want to take advantage of other people's psychological bias that such as loss aversion, or, you know, many other there's many other behavioral bias that has been documented. I think there's a Richard flower. Let me write the name here. Richard flower is the one that is famous. Is Nobel Prize winning economist that talk about behavioral fire bias. So you can look up his book and many other books. There's another famous author who had recently died, another Nobel Prize law in actually had a correspondence with him. He's a Princeton economics professor. I can't remember his name offhand, but he's he's all almost regarded as the father of Behavior Economics. Anyway, you can read up those books if you want to see how you can exploit behavioral bias of other people. Okay, more questions here, yes, so yes. So there's another question, which is, in the future, will AI take over trading? And the answer is, well, yes, but at that point, I think that the offer will be eroded, because everybody will have AI and then robot trading is the CEO. Trading is a seal for some game. But investing is not so at that point in time, it is very possible that only factor investing will be possible. In other words, you have to pay for risk you cannot offer essentially means risk that the risk is idiosyncratic and it can be diversified. Rate offer means that, yes, surely you can lose money, but the losing money is a white noise. It is so if you trade long enough, or you trade enough instruments, those white noise will cancel out, and so you're not afraid of systematic risk, but that kind of offer will be surely eroded greatly. If everybody has the AGI use AGI to trade right at that point, I think that there will be very little offer left, but they will still be beta or factor return. Because you are paid, you are paid to suffer those risks, so different people will still have different risk tolerance or risk appetite. Maybe, if you are farmer, you own corn, you don't mind if coin price go up and your short future position go down, that's the risk you are willing to pay for. So in those circumstances, you are willing to take certain factor risk. You will get the certain factor return, but they are not offered. And that, and I think that the AI robot will will essentially force the market to only provide profit due to factor return rather than alpha. Okay, so that is my view. But who knows when that will happen? Daniel Kahneman, yes, I thank you for that. I will, I will write another look. Yes, yes. He's a very kind person, because he replied my email, amazing, such a famous person, and I asked him to endorse my book. But, you know, he said, Too many people ask me, but at least he replied. I think that is, I don't know if the spanning is right, but you should, if you Google it, you'll find him. He unfortunately committed suicide at the age of over 90 in Switzerland, I think last year.

Speaker 1  33:36  
Anyway. So this is the high level overview. There is also another cause for momentum, and that only happened in the HFT market, and that is usually categorized as market manipulation or momentum magnition. I will not go into it, because in most jurisdictions, this is an illegal training strategy, you will. And people have gone to jail because of that, so that's not engaged in that. Okay, so we'll skip over the matlab tutorial. I understand that you have access to my back testing recorded course as well, where it comes with a matlab tutorial. So if you really want to learn Matlab, you can use that pre recorded course and learn Matlab. Or you can ask your favorite LLM to help you learn Matlab, or translate your program into MATLAB as well. So I will skip over, obviously, the matlab tutorial here, because you have access to it otherwise. So we go straight to the first causal model of momentum. As I said, role return plays a key role in that. When you hear people talk about, oh, I'm I do momentum trading people, there's a oftentimes you say, Oh, so you are. CTA. What does that mean? CTA. Means commodity trading advisor. The reason why people oftentimes conflate momentum trader with CTA or CTA strategies and momentum strategy is because, well, momentum is most prevalent in the futures market. If you want to find momentum trade momentum, there are no better market to trade at than the futures market. That the converse is not true. It's not saying that you cannot find momentum in stock market, in crypto market, in forex market, in fixed income market. Yes, you can find momentum there, but it is much easier to understand momentum and find momentum in the futures market. And that comes down to the notion of row return. What is row return? Well, it's almost a definition. It you might think that it's, well, this is meaningless. It's a definition, right? What is the total return in futures? Well, it is always decomposable into the sport return and the row return, right? It's two part sport is

Speaker 2  36:00  
and roll.

Speaker 1  36:06  
So let's take it to the I will give you two example of what is spot and what's role return. Let's say you are, you have the SPX index, s and p5, 100. Index, right. SBX is an index. And the index, you know, obviously every day, it has a certain percent return, right, it has a certain percent return, right. And that percent return you can call and then there is the the ES future. That's the s p5 100 mini future, right? That's the, there's a future that is tracking the s p5 100 index, and that also has a certain return right now. So the question is, the total return of the E Mini future is different from the SPX index percent change, so the S and P Index percent change that is the spot. That is the spot return, and the ES future return is the total return of that the total future return is the SPX return, which is a spot plus what, what can you say about the difference? Anybody? Anybody know what is the row return? How do you determine the row Return of the E Mini future? What's this extra return, which we will call the row return of of the E Mini future? How do you compute it? That's the row return of E The difference is the row return. But what is exactly the row return for the Union future? How do we compute it? Let me see some people say dividend and interest rate. That is exactly right. The row return is determined by the dividend and interest rate. But do we add them? Do we subtract them? What are the sign interest rate? Is it plus or minus, or is it plus or minus? A dividend? That is true, and the way to to understand that is to have a make an arbitrage argument. The arbitrage argument in finance means that, well, you construct two different portfolio that are made of different instruments, but you can ascertain that, well, if the two portfolio does not give the same return. Everybody will trade one instead of the other. And that can't be so that means, by the arbitrage argument, you argue that these two portfolio must generate the same return. Otherwise, no one will trade one portfolio. Everybody will trade the other portfolio. So in this case, the arbitrage arguments goes like this, instead of holding the E Mini future to benefit from the SPX index return, you can also hold the EPF spy. Right? Everybody familiar with that spy, that's the ETF spy, ETF that has a return as well, but the spy return is also not equal to the SPX index. Return,

Speaker 1  39:53  
what is the spy ETF? Return equal to what is it? Return equal to SPX. Return plus one. Off.

Unknown Speaker  40:07  
What do you think it is? Let me see, yes, SPX, return,

Speaker 1  40:16  
dividend, yes. Well, let's ignore the expense. Of course, you know, they will charge you a small expense, but let's not worry about that for now, that's practically considered transaction cost, but you are right. The total return of the spy is the SPX times the dividend, pass the dividend. Okay. So here we have two portfolio. One, you know, let's say I gave you a million dollars in cash. It's a, you know, I invest $1 million I give you $1 million you have, you have $1 million in cash, and you want to invest it to track the SPX index. What's the best way to do it, one way you use this $1 million to buy mini futures that has the notional value of 1 million. The other way is that you invest in the spy ETF, the two portfolio should give you equal exactly the same total return, because otherwise, no one will trade the future. Everybody will buy spy. Or conversely, no one will buy spy. You know, no one will buy spy and everybody will buy future. So whether you are buying using $1 million to buy spy in that account, or you buy, yes in that account, it should give you the total, same total return. You know that if you use that to get go to buy spy, the total return will be the SPX return plus dividend, and if you use that to buy E Mini future, the total return will be also the SPX plus the row return. Now from that argument, you can derive what the total return is. Why? Because you know that when you invest that $1 million in buying E Mini, there is something else that is generating return for you, apart from what the future return will be. And that something else is, what do you think? What else is generating return, besides the future position, if you put a million dollar in that account. Indeed, some people already hinted at it. Interest. Buying future does not cause any funding expense. It does not cost you. There's no funding cost because the future is just a derivative contract. Your $1 million is alive and well in the brokerage account, generating interest. So the total return in that portfolio is the future return, which is the the total return is the SPX return, the S I'm sorry, yes, yes, let's, let's say that yes,

Unknown Speaker  43:32  
yeah, in the, in the in the Future portfolio, the total return is the SPX return

Unknown Speaker  43:42  
plus the

Speaker 1  43:45  
interest rate that you got to earn, plus the row return, that free component of the return you get in one portfolio, and by the arbitrage argument, that has to be exactly equal To the spy ETF return, which is the SPX return plus the dividend. Why is there no interest return in the account that whole spy? Well, Spy as an ETF, you can you can try it. You actually need x actual cash to buy it. When you have a million dollar and you buy a million dollar buy your cash disappear, whereas the cash in the futures account is used only as a margin collateral. The cash is still there. You just cannot take it out of the account. But that cash, which is the margin, is generating interest for you. So you have this arbitrage argument, and you create the equation here, this create an equation. And so by solving that equation, I say, Well, what is row return? Well, row return is, of course, equal to. Dividend minus interest. That's it. The row return of E Mini is exactly equal to the dividend yield minus the interest rate. Analyze, of course, everything in analyze any questions.

Speaker 1  45:24  
That is how easy it is to derive the row return in this specific case. In other case, let's say I give you oil futures. What is the row return for oil future? It's not that easy to determine from a analytical argument. There's very little arbitrage argument that you can make. There's no arbitrage argument that give you an exact formula for the row return of good oil. So we need to find statistical method to estimate it. So that's the difficulty. But in E Mini you can know exactly what it is that gives rise, by the way, to index arbitrage, because no you know exactly what the row return should be if, in actuality, the row return differs from the theoretical rule return that create an index arbitrage opportunity. But index arbitrage opportunity are very, very little these days. Maybe if you are bank, you can take advantage of it as a retail trader. The defect is so small that it will be definitely overcome by transaction costs. So forget about it right in the old days, maybe 30 years ago, you might be able to take advantage of index arbitrage as a retail trader, but certainly not now.

Unknown Speaker  46:37  
Okay, so,

Speaker 1  46:41  
but I want to give you another example that you can derive an exact outcome of the row return, just for homework. Okay, I don't want to take up too much time on this one topic as a homework exercise. Think about it if you are trading the Mexican peso future on the Chicago merchant time exchange CME, the Mexican peso future has a row return. That low return is different from the sport return of AmEx and USD. AmEx and USD is the sport currency. If you are a forex trader, you can go to any sport X Forex broker and trade the inverse USD, MXN, not MXN. But you know, is this equivalent? So you can trade MX and USD as a sport currency, but you can also trade the peso future on the CME. And so the question is, what is the return? What is the role Return of the peso future? I think it's very interesting to think about it. If you have the answer, tell me now if not, treat it as homework exercise and let me know tomorrow.

Speaker 1  48:02  
So there's a question, explain this mathematically with an example. I This is the mathematics. I don't want you know. This is the mathematics of an arbitrage where we can compute the row return exactly. It's a very simple mathematics. Is arithmetic, right? I don't know if you are. When you say, can you explain this mathematically? You must be. You might be referring to this. Otherwise, please elaborate of what this do you mean? Okay,

Speaker 1  48:47  
now row, the row return, is so important in futures that they are given a name. When their sign is positive, it's called normal backwardation, and when it's negative, it's called contango. I oftentimes have difficulties remembering which is which. I have very poor memory. I particularly can't remember these arbitrary names. So there is a mnemonic that you can use. People say no, backwardation is normal. Why is that normal? Normal backwardation, normal backwardation. Why is that normal? Well, it turns out that there's a story behind it. The famous British economist, and you know who west of Britain from from financial ruins during the First and Second World War? John Maynard Keynes, okay, he is also a hedge fund manager. Many people didn't know that, but he's not only the Chancellor of the executive but he's also famous economist, but also he's a trader and hedge fund manager. Particularly he trade agricultural futures, wheat, corn and the stuff. He said that in a trading agricultural futures, there is a natural participant in the futures market for agricultural futures. For example, if you are wheat farmer, would you be shorting or long wheat futures? If you were wheat farm, wheat farmer is the natural participant you might call the commercial user of this future market. In future market, they categorize, there are two kinds of traders. One is a commercial user, such as the wheat farmer, and then there is the speculator, such as the hedge fund. So we are talking about the commercial the wheat farm. Would they be short or long futures? The wheat futures short exactly because the farmer is already long. The spot market, the spot wheat why would they long future? They don't want to double the risk. In fact, they want to shorter futures to to lock in the price of weight before they are ready to deliver. They don't want to lose money. They don't speculate. They just say, Okay, this is good price. Let me short. Let me sell the wheat ahead of time and lock in the price, so they are natural short sellers in the wheat futures market now. But so therefore, in order to have a market, there must be a buyer. The buy is a hedge fund manager, the speculator. But that's why would the hedge fund manager, buy the wheat. Do they know more about the wheat than the farmers? Do they know that the wheat is going to go up, so I'm going to buy it? Not really. They don't know more about where the wheat price is going to go than the farmer. The farmer knows about whether the demand is applied much better than you and me. We don't trade with we don't have wheat in our backyard. What do we know about the wheat demand and supply and the weather and so forth, and the disease and parasite and all kinds of stuff? No, you need to incentivize the hedge fund manager to buy to take the other side of the wheat farmer. That is a very risky trade, right? You are trading with someone who has more information than you have somebody who look out the backyard and they can see what the wheat is looking like. You don't have that information advantage, so you need to be compensated for that disadvantage. And how do you come and save for it? You need to add a row return to the wheat futures, positive row return.

Speaker 1  52:49  
In order to entice the speculator to buy wheat future, you have to build in a positive expected return. That is the row return. We don't know which way the which spot price is going up or down. Maybe even the farmer doesn't know it. But in any case, I want to have a up bias in order to buy it, because otherwise I don't have the same I'm not on the equal informational plane as the as the counterparty. Therefore, by this argument, backwardation is normal in the agricultural market. That's how I remember it. Backward gradation is normal. And because of this argument, it has to be positive. But this is a story only. It's not real, okay? It's just a easy to remember story. It sounds pretty reasonable, but this is not actually true. Wheat can have periods waste in contango just like corn, we will see can have contango period. But hey, it's a good story, and you can use that to remember that backwardation is normal and it is positive return row, return. So there's someone who come back to me, Kathy, come back to me to say that the low return for maximum pace of future is the difference in interest rate and GDP growth between Mexico and us, almost right, almost right, but the GDP growth doesn't factor into it. It's only the difference in interest rate. Think about it. Use the same arbitrage argument that I have used for the E Mini future, you can derive exactly what's the row Return of the peso future in terms of the interest rate differential between the US and dollar and the peso, peso, you can derive it exactly what is the sign? Okay, again, using exact same arbitrage. Okay, very good.

Speaker 1  54:54  
So there is someone I think, that had said that they are. Confused about the arbitrage argument. Arbitrage argument says that you know, if you trade one instrument, such as the spy, you if you hold spy, if you have a million dollar and you hold spy, it should have the exact same total return as if you use this $1 million to hold ye mini futures. That's the arbitrage. Otherwise, no one will trade one or the other. Everybody would either trade spy or everybody would hold ye mini the two instrument must have exactly the same total return because of that equality. And you know what the total return of spy is based on the spot return, you know it must be the index return plus the dividend. And you know what the total return of the E Mini future is, it is also the spot return plus the row return, you can and also, because you know that that portfolio also generate interest, you know exactly, you can use this formula to derive the row return. So that is the arbitrage argument. Okay. The next question is, before we take a quick break, is, how do you estimate the row return? To estimate the row return? You know, in the case of the E Mini future and the pace of future is easy. That's an analytical formula. It's exact. But in most cases, like put oil, corn with we don't know. There's no exact formula. So how do we estimate it from the data? Well, to do that, we need a model of the future prices. And here is the simplest model of future prices that you can ever find. Well, there is simpler one. The simpler one is the future price. Go like this. This is time. This is future, price, F, straight line, fat line, well, that's very boring, right? I mean, of course you can have a simpler model that is the future by never change, but that's not going to help us in deriving row return, because in this case, row return could well be zero. So we don't want to consider that degenerate case. Okay, this is a degenerate case. This is what I'm drawing. Is the simplest non degenerate example model of a future price. That is the future prices move linearly with time. Line, linear, linear, linear. It goes linear in time. In the case of backwardation, they go up linearly. And also another feature is look at that they expire each future. Each of these is one contract. This is the first nearby contract, or sometimes called a front contract, front contract, and this is the second nearby, sometimes called a back contract. And here is the third nearby, observe where they end up. What can you tell from this picture about the spot return, on this visual market, anything you can say about the spot return?

Speaker 2  58:38  
What is the spot return in this picture? Do?

Speaker 1  58:40  
It should be very easy, a very simple answer, zero, I can cash, a cash say it exactly. Can be simpler. The spot return is 00. Well, why? Why? Well, the spot price doesn't change, right? They expire all at the same price. This futures instrument, that means that the spot price doesn't change. Futures when they expire, they always converge to the spot price. So if they end up on the same spot price, that means the spot return is zero. So this is as simple as you can get right. Generally speaking, the spot price is going crazy, one day up, one day down, one second up, one day and second time. But in this simplified future model, the causal model that we are talking about. We eliminate all noise. Let's set this to zero, because I don't know anything about a spot price. You think that I'm teaching you how to trade futures, and you I must know how to predict the spot price of crude oil, right? I must know how to predict the spot price of. Are of coffee future, whatever wrong. I know nothing about where wheat is going. I know nothing about where coffee is going. I know nothing. I don't have any opinion of whether the SNP is going to go up or down, or the crude oil is going to go up down. That is not my job. I'm not a directional trader in this case, because I don't know anything about the SPX that you don't know. Therefore, what's the rational model for me for the spot return zero. I don't know if it's going to go up or down. I can just say zero. Now maybe I say, well, that's not quite right, because historically, SNP has to go up year after year. Maybe the average return is, I don't know, 8% a year in the last 30 years, so we shouldn't set it to zero. All right. All right. If you think that your spot return is going to have us 8% on average, all you need to do is to make this axis into an angle. Okay? So in this case, the spot return might be 8% per annum for SPX. That's a small modification that we are willing to make, right? It's still constant. The spot price is still is become a linear function of time. It goes up linearly with time, just not zero. So yes, you can expand it. You can make a slightly more advanced model by allowing the spot return to be non zero, but it's still a constant. But that's another feature that is more important to us is that I don't know what the spot return is, because it could be 8% but it changes every minute. I don't want to speculate. The key is that I want to know what the row return is, and the row return can be derived from this picture. Immediately notice that the slope

Unknown Speaker  1:02:07  
of this guy,

Speaker 1  1:02:13  
in the case where the spot return is zero, the slope of these guys is the total return, but since the total return. Is just the row return in this case, because the spot price is constant. So here it is. You can easily find out what the spot price is from this picture. I'm sorry, the row return is from this picture. It's just a slope. The row return is the slope of this graph, which is the graph of the future prices as function of time, assuming that the spot return is zero. But if the spot is not zero, support return is not zero, you have to subtract the spot return from total. That's all okay. So it's a linear model. In other words, this is a linear model of future prices. Now one thing of note, however, is that I'm using log return. Typically in finance, we use log return rather than net return, or log prices rather than price. Anyone know what why log prices and lock return is better than prices and net return in finance. What's the advantage of using that?

Speaker 1  1:03:34  
Yeah, I think Agra make that question. Why are we using law? Yes, and you shall has a good answer. Number one is that law returns are additive. Additive means that if you have two period, one has a lot of return of 1% and sec, the second one has a log return of 2% what's the total return of these two period anyone, the first period has a return of 1% and second period has a return of 2% expressed as a lock return. What is the total lock Return of the two periods together? Anyone, 3% of course, it's not greater than three it's exactly 3% it's exactly 3% can you say that if I tell you that one period is 1% is net return, let's say you go to the bank and say, what's the return on my saving account? I always say 1% and then you waited two years, and you come back and look at the total return of your bank account, is that going to be 2% or is it going to be less or more? Anyone?

Speaker 1  1:04:58  
Is it going to be exactly 2% If you if the bank tell you that each year is 1% return, no, it's more because you have compounding. So it's very difficult to use net return, because you can't add the return different period, but lock return you can. But there's another more intriguing advantage of using lock return compared to net return, anyone what's the benefit of using log return? So in this course, by the way, I don't just teach momentum. I don't teach you just futures. I teach you a lot about basic quantitative finance. I want to make sure that everybody have a solid grounding in basic quantitative finance, not just in momentum strategy, not just in future trading, but basic quantity here is one of the tidbits. What is the benefit of using lock return versus net return, other than the fact that they're added? It's a very deep answer that's nothing to do with stationary that no get nobody argue that the world return a stationary by the way, it's not stationary. Oh, I'm sorry. Return are always, by definition, stationary. Prices are not but return, whether you use log return or net return, they're all stationary because, by definition, return has a finite variance. They don't their variance cannot go up to infinity. Is a is a finite number, so it's return are always stationary. That's not the reason why we pick North return versus net return.

Speaker 1  1:06:39  
Well, many people say compounding, continuous compounding. That's not the reason. I mean net return compound also. That's why you get more than 2% after two years. The reason some put somebody have hinted that is the normality of the log return distribution. So only log return can have a normal distribution. Why anyone? Why can't net return have a normal distribution in theory, not just in practice, but in theory, net return cannot have a normal distribution. Why?

Speaker 1  1:07:25  
Why doesn't? Why can't it have a normal distribution? My normal distribution, by the way, look like this, right? I'm sure you all have. This is the price or Return. Let us call it return. Okay, let's record return, and this is the probability of return. Why can't it have a normal distribution for net return?

Speaker 1  1:07:57  
Some I know that somebody always going to mention outliers or extreme returns. That's not the reason, in practice, yes, they are extreme return, but this extreme return is also going to cause the lock return to be not normal. Lock. Taking the lock doesn't get rid of this extreme return. It doesn't make it normal. Just, you know, it can't make the extreme outliers suddenly become a normal distribution. That's a more simple, fundamental reason why net return cannot be exactly Saeed hard got it. Net Return cannot have take on a negative infinity value. Net Return. The minimum value is minus one, right? How do you lose more money than you have even you know, leverage is not considered. You know, in our case, is not a problem, because we are talking about return of an account. They don't care if you're leveraged or not. I'm just saying that this account cannot have a more than 100% negative, less than 100% return, net return, which is defined as the price of t minus the price of t minus one divided by the price of t minus one, this number cannot be less than minus one. Price can only go to zero. Price cannot go to a negative price. You cannot have a negative price. You can only go to a zero price. So when, when the price go to zero, let's say this go to zero. This net return. This is the net return, by the way, net return, if a price go to. Zero. This go to minus p, t minus one divided by t minus one, that's equal minus one. So the minimum return is minus one. Because the minimum price can only be zero. It cannot be negative. But if you take the log of price, obviously when the price gets very small, it can go to negative infinity. Log price of a very small price can go to negative infinity. And so log return can also go to negative infinity. And that's why you can have a normal distribution of log return, but you cannot have a normal distribution of net return. And so in finance, it is much better to do lock return, because of these two nice properties, which is why we plot the log. And so when you say, Wow, the slope is the total return, the slope of this graph is the total is the row Return of the future market. That row return is expressed as a lock return, not the net return, very important, okay, contango, by the way, you can see very clearly that the slope is positive and the row return is positive, right? The future prices go up at over time, whereas the spot returns zero. So obviously the row return is positive. This is a back rotation. Back rotate the future market, and conversely, the contango market is such that the world returns negative and the prices are going down. So that's easy now, but most of the time when you see people plotting future prices, they don't give you this kind of graph, they don't plot you a graph that show you the future price as a function of time. What they show you is a snapshot of the future market. They give you the future the prices of different future. Contract one that is the fund. Contract one is the back. Contract one is the third nearby. One is the fourth nearby they plot the prices of the futures as a function not of time, but of time to expiration right. Previously, we plot futures as a function of time, and we have different contracts. Now, most of the time, people plot what is called a forward curve, is that they put the different contract prices as a function of the time to expiration. Time to expiration usually are given capital T, and this is the log prices of the different contract. They are not the prices of one contract over time. They are at a single snapshot in time. What are the prices of the different contract? That's called a forward curve. Forward curve also called the term structure.

Speaker 1  1:12:57  
That's the most common plot of futures. So I have an exercise for you. Does the forward curve of a future that is in backwardation? Does it have a positive or negative slope?

Speaker 1  1:13:18  
The slope, by the way, of the forward curve is proportional to the row return. But you have to tell me what the sign is. Is it equal to the row return, or is it equal to negative row return? That's the equivalent question. So just tell me you know that. Let's say you know that the row return is positive, that we are in back rotation. Does that slope of the forward curve? Is it going to be positive or negative as well? The row return is positive? Does the forward curve has a positive slope or negative slope? So

Speaker 1  1:14:28  
many people say positive, actually, only one say kimanshu said is negative and Mata gets negative, the negative can win back. Rotation is negative. So why it's easy to come from? To take a look at the previous graph, this is back rotation, right? Let me use the green color just to illustrate. So you say, oh, I want a forward curve. Okay? Okay, that means that we take a snapshot in time. So this is a snapshot in time. Let's call that time t zero, which doesn't matter, and then we'll figure out what is the capital T? Well, this is the first point in capital T. Is t1 this is the it has a t2, that's the next expiration time. This is t3, t3 is here. So it is obvious that if you plot it as a function of t and t1, t2, t1, is here.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:43  
3t. Two is t1, right?

Speaker 1  1:15:53  
T1, is the highest price. T2, is lower. I mean, just the offset doesn't matter, but it's definitely lower than t1 and t3 is even lower. It has a negative slope. So if you took it, take a look at the snapshot in time for backward data market, it is obvious that the forward curve has a negative slope. So the slope of the fourth curve is the net is the negative rule return, not positive. Okay, so there's a question. There's a comment that someone made, oh, but you said you can't have negative prices. The crude oil did have negative price. Well, that's a rare anomaly. Nobody actually is going to take that price. This is a abnormal market.

Speaker 1  1:16:58  
All the system go haywire when the prices go negative. So actually, it is such an anomaly that we don't normally take into account in finance. You know, they normally people do not model negative prices in finance. So that is the first instance ever that there was a negative price for something, okay? Because, you know, it's very rare that somebody want you to to sell you an asset, but they have to pay you to take over the asset. So that is not a situation that is normally modeled in finance. We will ignore that for now. Okay, so we have a sort of graphical view of a simple model of future price movement. Let's have an algebraic field. You know, Geometry and Algebra, right? They are related. So here we have an algebraic field, and it looks like this is the future price model. Future a future price at the time t with an exploration capital T, and it is equal to this exponential function. It looks very complicated, but actually it's just a linear model. If you take the log of both sides, it returned to the linear model before. But here in this model, you see a few interesting constant that we have given names to is my particular name is not an industry standard name. So here we have gamma. The gamma is the coefficient in the exponential. The gamma is the coefficient against the row return, I'm sorry, the time to expression capital T and notice the negative sign. That's where the negative sign come from.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:48  
Gamma is the row return. We want to estimate gamma. We want to estimate gamma, and we know that

Speaker 1  1:18:59  
it has a has to have a negative sign when you measure it in the forward curve space in the term structure space, alpha is the spot return. So if you take the law, it is nothing but a linear equation that describe those lines that you saw before right whether it is in the original time space, or whether you are in the term structure space, they describe these straight lines that we saw, with the exception that alpha is not necessarily zero, right? I say that's the spot return. If you allow it to be non zero, you need to call it alpha. But that doesn't change how you estimate gamma is still using the slope to estimate gamma. In particular, you can use the slope at the in the forward curve to estimate gamma. Just remember the negative sign. So let's do some numerical exercise I

Unknown Speaker  1:19:59  
have given. You a

Speaker 1  1:20:00  
set of data, again, in the dot mat format, in MATLAB dot metaphor. So we can only read that in the in the MATLAB which you have access to, I understand the coin and still gave you a MATLAB license for one month. So you have to open that platform and then upload these prices. Let's take a look. Let's do that together. Okay, so I have my MATLAB program up here, and I can navigate. You, can you can you can use an explorer, or you can navigate. Let me see it's kind of small.

Unknown Speaker  1:20:36  
Well, open, okay,

Speaker 1  1:20:40  
open to the momentum workshop. Okay, the five folder that has the momentum workshop.

Speaker 1  1:20:56  
Let's go to the momentum oops. Well, let's go back. I was already in the momentum workshop. So yeah, momentum Ws is the momentum workshop. It contains all the code and all the data. So you can call it whatever you want, but you want to download into one folder and navigate to that folder so that you have everything. Okay, you navigate to that folder, and then, by the way, you know, let me just turn off the video so maybe you can see better. And then, after you navigate to that folder, let me make it bigger, you can double click. A very easy way is to double click on the file which contain the data. So in this case, is c2, 2018, so double click on it. It loaded it. Or you can also type in this command window, low, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But it's much easier to just double click left click on it. And then you will see in the workspace there are three array the first array we double click on it is the trading day array, the data rate. That's easy. Let me load it. It's just a bunch of y by y by mmdd. This is the days of the data that I gave you. Easy, right? The second array is the contracts array. It tells you the name of those contract is a row vector. What is this? 2007 h2, down, 7k anybody have any idea what this h and k and so forth means two? I mean obviously 2007 means the date at the year these are they tell you what kind of contracts they have. They are right. When do they expire? But what does action k and so forth mean?

Speaker 1  1:22:55  
Oh, there's another comment. Somebody said that Japan has a negative interest rate for years, negative interest rate is not a price, so that doesn't affect our model. Negative interest rate just means that the interest rate is negative. It doesn't mean that the price of anything is negative. Okay, so Archer said these are the months of expiration that is called correct. They are month code. So if you're not familiar with month code, let me give you some example. You can go just Google futures. Month codes. You go to CME. You see this table of future month code. So F correspond to January, February is g, h is March and so forth, right? So we'll keep that in mind. Okay, we'll keep that in mind. So here we have H meaning if you open that folder next to it, oops, I don't want to make it too big, so we'll just look at this one side by side. H means March, K means May. So here, immediately you see that for this corn futures market, this corn futures, they don't have a contract that expire every month. That's very important to notice. They are not regularly monthly expiration. Okay, so let's proceed. And is July, u is September, and then do we get a November? No, it jumps to Z December. That's another key feature you have to remember in these cultural features, the exploration months are not spaced evenly, not necessarily space, even you have. To take care of that when you do model as well. Two keys, observation,

Unknown Speaker  1:25:05  
okay, so

Speaker 1  1:25:11  
finally, you get the double click on the price matrix itself. Now this is the way that futures data should be organized, right? It is almost like a stock. If you have, if you're presented with a matrix of stock prices, you will likely find the same arrangement. The rows correspond to different days and the column correspond to different stocks. Here, the rows also correspond to different days and the column correspond to different contract expiration, or contracts, they are equivalent, similar to the way we present a data set for stock price, we present a data set for futures price. This is all corn futures, but they are contract that expire in different month. And here is the made price matrix itself, arranged in the same number of rows and same number of columns as we saw before, but you see that most of these prices are Nan. Why is that? Why are more of most of these prices? Na, what happened to those prices, of those contracts? So

Speaker 1  1:26:26  
yes, just the question from Soraya says, do they exploration? The exploration are different, not even in spaces because of the harvest cycle. Yes. In fact, you're very right. It is because, you know, sometimes you can't deliver a con in November. It just doesn't match to half a cycle. That's the reason, correct. So let me ask you, why are there all these NAMS in the data for these contracts? What happened to these contracts? They expired. Correct? If you scroll back earlier to the top, they may still date. Actually, you know, they either have not been created yet or they have expired. So there are two reasons why the NAS so in this case, you have to scroll down to see if they ever have prices. They don't. We don't have prices for any of them, apparently. So we have to go forward to find a more recent contract see if they have prices. Yes, they have prices. So so you can see that these are finally prices, and if you score up, oh yeah, they actually have prices. Eventually, they either have not started trading yet, or they have already finished trading. So futures, unlike a stock, have, well, stock also have an inception date, the IPO date. But for futures, they not only have a creation date, but they also have an expiration date. So they only the prices only exist for a certain period of time, and you can see that they start to expire as you could move forward, right? You move forward, and so all of a sudden it doesn't have prices anymore. You can see the first column. Look at the first column, it suddenly stopped and having Nan that's when the expiration date. So you can see determine the expiration date from the last date it has price. That's the expiration date. The next contract is going to expire, right? Here is the expiration date, okay? And so on so forth. So you scroll to the most bottom row, you will find that most of the contract expired already, except for the most recent one. Now, one word of caution, the last column. What's the last column? What's the last contract? The last contract is not a contract has this weird symbol, what is it? CSUs dollar, that's not a contract. It indicates the spot price of coin. Normally, when you buy futures data, they don't tell you what the spot price is. This data come from a vendor called CSI data.com and I want to write it down for you, in case you want to buy your own data. I don't get any commission from you buying them, but I like this data vendor very much. In fact, they are the provider for data for Yahoo Finance for the longest time, maybe still is they have the best and cheapest futures data you can ever find on a daily basis. Their data is clean. Their customer service is excellent, so I highly recommend it. And this is the data coming from them. And their data typically give you a column of spot price, but I would recommend you just discard it, because the spot price are not obtained at the same time as the future price. It is quite this misleading. Sometimes you when you see two prices next to each other, you assume they're captured at the same time, right? Nobody say, give you two prices. One is captured 10 years ago, one is captured today, and put it on the same row you will. No, that's not right, but in this case, the spot price is obtained at a different time as the future price, and so they are kind of misleading. So I recommend you get rid of that call. Let me ask you something.

Speaker 1  1:30:17  
When you are given a future price, what exactly does that price mean? Is it the big price? Is it just ask price? Is that the mid price, or is it the execution price? What kind of price is that that I'm displaying and that you normally download from a data vendor like CSI data, what is the meaning of a future price, especially if the data is a daily data set, is that the last execution price is that bid? Ask mid, what is anyone that even that has some new ones to it? One of you, Madhu Suhana, said that you don't know MATLAB, you might have missed my book in the beginning. Maybe you came late. Anyone remember what I said about what? What should you do if you don't know MATLAB? What was my advice?

Speaker 1  1:31:24  
Anyone remember my advice in the beginning? Yes, use your favorite LLM. Either convert your Python program into MATLAB, or convert my MATLAB program into Python. You have to convert it to MATLAB because you are given a MATLAB platform. This data can only be loaded in MATLAB. If you don't know how to load data in MATLAB, ask your LM or just follow my example, double click on it. How can it be easier? Right? So it used to be there's a lot of argument about what language should be used in this course, with the advent of your favorite chatbot, none of this argument hold any water, because I can program in any language, rust, Java, and nobody can complain, because you can just ask your LM to convert the code into any language you like. Anyway. So what is the nature of the prices? And one of you arrive, got it the prices that we display, for example, here not the last column. Mind you. Last column is spot price. These prices are the settlement prices. Anyone can explain to me, what is the settlement price of futures. How does it differ from the last price of futures? Last price typically means the last transaction price is the same as in stock market. If you have a stock price, typically they give you the last transaction price, but in futures, they don't usually give you the last transaction price. In fact, it is not good to give you the last transaction price. There's a reason they don't give you last transaction price, but they give you the settlement price. What exactly is the settlement price in futures?

Speaker 1  1:33:21  
The settlement price. Somebody say, oh, it converts with a spot. Yes, it converts to a spot. But before it converts with what is it? Right? What is it before it converts into a spot price? The settlement price is often defined via a formula called V wop. So with that hint, anyone can explain it better. Yes, it is average price of the last few minutes of trading. Correct it? That's exactly what it is, because futures market have oftentimes a pretty big bid ask spread. And in fact, even without bid ask spread, there is the tech size is usually quite substantial. You know, in E Mini, what is the dollar amount of one take, by the way? Anyone know, in E Mini, what's the dollar US? Dollar amount of one take change.

Speaker 1  1:34:26  
One take change in the email is $50 very big. It's not like in stock market. Oh, it's just one cent difference. Who do I care? In futures, one take is $50 $50 if you have 10 contract, that's like $500 difference you're paying for it. So not, not trivial. So the last price is kind of noisy. So what we would do, what the exchange do, is they average the last transaction of the last few. Minutes volume weighted so that's why they use v1 volume weighted average price of the last few minutes of trading, or last few seconds of trading, and they call that the settlement price. That settlement price is much more reflective of the market than the last price, which can be very noisy due to the bid, ask spread or due to the illiquidity, sometimes in less traded futures. Maybe lumber, for example, they may not even have trading in the last few minutes. So what do they do? They give you the bid the mid price as a settlement price. For example, there's very few trades in the last few minutes. Forget about V up. Even V Rob is not representative, but there's always a bid ask market. There is always a bid and ask. And they take the mid price of the bid and ask, and call that the settlement price. So that's very subtle in futures, because of the big tick size and because of the liquidity, e liquidity in some contract, you don't get use it. Use the settlement price for back testing instead of the last price. Even the settlement price is not, is a syntactic price, is a created price, is a calculated price, not an observed price? Well, in some sense, it's observed because it's an F but it's a is a V bar price, but it's not one transaction. Okay? So that's, that's the thing. Now there's another question, how do you create a back adjusted continuous contract? We'll deal with that later. For now, we don't need the back adjust we can't use the back adjusted continuous contract. Why? If you I, if I give you the back adjusted continuous contract, or if you convert this data into a back adjust the continuous contract. You cannot find the row return. So remember, how we find row return. We need to find the slope of the term structure. And then you can say, well, which day, which day of the of the term structure. You can pick, well, just for convenience, let me pick a date for you, so that everybody on the same page. Let's pick the day in the array. The day is 6387,

Speaker 1  1:37:20  
6387, what is state 86837, let me find let's call T equals 6387, okay, and what is that day in y, y, mmdd. Is that 20? 12 o3, 14. Okay, let's pick that date and construct a term structure, because remember, the fourth curve and term structure is a snapshot in time. So we have to pick which snapshot. And let's pick that snapshot, 2012, O, 314, which is equivalent to the row, 26387, and I would invite you to compute, estimate the row Return of the future contract on that day. Estimated how find the negative of the slope of the forward curve on that day. That's how you estimate. And don't forget the log, right, because the return has to be, you know, we are talking about log return. So I will invite you to do that. And let's take, I know this is going to be the first numerical excellence. Let's take 15 minutes. We will come back five minutes before the top of the hour, right? Take 15 minutes. You can take a break, or you can work on this exercise. But I want to, if you have the estimate of the row return based on this negative slope on that day. Please post it on the Q and A so we can go on. If I see someone post it, we can end the break earlier, but, but let's forget it just 15 minutes. Use this 15 minutes as a break as well as an exercise in in class exercise to estimate the row return on that date, please log return. Okay.

Speaker 1  1:39:36  
There was a last question from Sheree, yes, you said that you come from a non quant background. Well, you're in luck with LLM. You don't need to know how to code LLM can write the code for you. You just need to instruct LLM to write the code that you. Want. And in this case, you want to write the code in MATLAB. You tell it what you want. You tell it the data structure, and it will write the code for you. But you have to be very explicit. You basically instruct LM exactly in mathematical terms, not you know, loose term, what you want to do with this data, and if it will create a code for you in MATLAB, no less. Okay, so that's the approach we should you should take. You no longer need to be an expert coder. But of course, if you want to practice quantitative trading going forward, it is good to learn some basic programming, because you never know what the Aram tells you is correct or not. So I would suggest you pick a language, simplest language. It could even be basic, but most people would pick Python. I would suggest MATLAB. If you start over, start from scratch and learn this basic language. Otherwise, you never know if the LM produce the correct code. You need to at least be able to tell if the code is correct. Okay.

Speaker 1  1:54:23  
Okay, so let me see. There's some further questions while we are on break. Reference for complete beginner, well, like I said, much of this material is taken from my book called algorithmic trading. So not to toot my own horn, I would say that's the best book to go to. First. You can download it from Amazon, algorithmic trading and take a look to see if you like it. Download a sample and see if you like it. So. That would be the book most relevant to this course. But if you want to be truly for true beginners, you should start with my first book called quantitative trading, which, as I said, it is just being published in paperback. It's a great honor to see a book out in paperback, because most books don't make it to that stage right? The fact that this is going to pay you back, it means that a lot of people reading it. So I'm pleased to see that you can eat a book by the but the paperback is available for order, but it's not actually can be delivered yet. You can order it, but it's a pre order, the hard copy of course, Second Edition. You can get it like tomorrow. So that would be the absolute beginner book, but it is less relevant to this course.

Speaker 1  1:56:00  
Is it lacking that question I don't understand. Yeah, okay, so very good. Anyone? So nobody has computed the row. Return. I shall wait for five minutes, because in the past workshops, there is always someone who was able to produce that number. So maybe it just take more time. So I will wait for a few more minutes to see if

Unknown Speaker  1:56:35  
anyone did that. Do it.

Speaker 1  1:56:54  
I'll switch to my lab platform and we will I'll start making some very simple code so that in real in life, once I see that someone of you Have have attended it, some of you have attended it.

Speaker 1  1:59:31  
Okay, nobody seems to be attempting it. So let me show you how to do it, very easy. First we need to look at the term structure. You know, we call it ft and that for that particular day. So what is that that take a look at the prices for that day. So this is the prices for that day, most of his Nan, except for the most recent contract. But as I said, the row, the column 31 is not what we want. So let's get rid of some of these useless columns. Just let's just say that ft is equal to ft column, which one is that is 19. This is 2726 Okay, 26 to column, 30th. Okay, so let's see what that is correct? Yes, this is the the last future price, 564, and this is the first feature price, 669, okay, so that's good. Now, the question is, you know, you want to create a find a slope, so you have to use linear regression, but line regression takes an x variable. What's the x variable? By the way, we should, you know, before we do more, we should take the log of that just to just make sure that we don't forget. So that's the log price. But what is the x variable? If you want to find the slope of a Ford curve, what's the x variable? Anyone?

Speaker 1  2:01:58  
It's not the X is not the spot price. Remember, what's the graph that we want to compute? Right? Let's, let's take a look. We are looking at not this graph, but this graph. Oops, no, this graph. What is the x axis for that graph? And how do you find that out from our data?

Speaker 1  2:02:36  
Oh, one of you say time. You're close time? What exact time, yes, how do we find the time for that graph?

Unknown Speaker  2:02:48  
Right? What is the time?

Speaker 1  2:03:21  
So for example, for this particular date, right that the date which is a T, what, what exactly is the time we're talking about? How do we create a time array for that time to expiration that is exactly right? So we have to find the time to expiration. Or you can also just say that this is the expiration date that is essentially time to expiration.

Speaker 1  2:03:58  
So what is the expiration date? But you can tell from the number the contracts that we are we are dealing with

Speaker 1  2:04:11  
26 to 30th. What are those contracts? Oops, mistake. So HK, and so, well, you know, is the offset is, is arbitrary, but we do want to know what exactly are the dates. So we start with h, k. And so h is what x is March. So we can say, okay, the time axis is March. Square Bracket is the, is the rate March, and then May, and then July, and then u is the. But remember, what is Z? Is that November? No, this. December. You don't have November contract. So that's the key trick. You cannot assume that all the time is just a 35679, 11, you know, implement by two, right? You can't create that time already like this, because they're irregular. So you have to make sure that the last one is 12, not not 11. But that's fine. So now you have the X and the Y. Can anyone tell me what function we should use in Matlab to find the slope? Ask your LLM. This is a good exercise. Ask your LLM in MATLAB, if I want to, I have an array that is called ft, right, which is the y variable, and I have an array called capital T, which is the x variable, what would be the function to call to find out the negative slope, negative slope of this x and y part.

Speaker 1  2:06:09  
But actually, before you you on one hand, you can ask on the other hand, I often want to talk about the cardinal sin of data science that is blindly assume that you can plot a straight line through a data set, X, Y, point. It is usually not advisable. What you should always do is to do what first, if somebody give you a set of x y coordinates and you say, Well, let's find a linear regression, you should immediately object. You say, you are committing the cardinal sin of data science. What's What should you do first before you attempt to find the slope of a set of x y data? You

Speaker 1  2:07:13  
Shi hum, the poly fit is fine, but that, yes, you're right. You can use polyfit with a degree one, but there's another very simple linear regression function you can ask your LM to suggest. But polyfit is not wrong. It's just perhaps not the most simplest you can find.

Speaker 1  2:07:41  
But before you even feed it into this formula, what should we have done? I have committed the partisan. And that is correct. Men may not pointed out a scatter plot need to be made. First narrative said, make sure it's stationary. That's not correct. Nobody is interested in stationarity here, right? We are just trying to find a relationship. Stationarity is not a prerequisite of a linear relationship. It's a completely different thing, right? So scatter plot, however, is is important because sometimes, if the x, y doesn't have a linear relationship, and you force a linearly fit it, it will give you a number. But does it mean anything? We don't know. We'll see some egregious example later on where a linear plot is definitely not recommended, but So here, let's just do a scatter plot, x and y, right? X and Y. Let's do a scatter plot to see if a linear relationship is reasonable, a linear regression is reasonable. Let's plot it. It's not too bad, right? It has it's not obvious that it is not a linear graph. I mean, this could be an outlier, you know, but there's a little bit of curvature, but it's not too bad to fit a straight line through it. So let's go ahead and anyone propose something else about the function to use your polyfit is one can you suggest? Can you LM suggest a different function we should use for linear regression in MATLAB?

Speaker 1  2:09:54  
Any other function should work in request, yes. Request. Is possible. But you know, if your LM doesn't suggest fit LM, I suggest you try different LM. I like chat GPT, but you might like something different. But if your LM doesn't know MATLAB statistics, oh, maybe you should specify you have access to the MATLAB statistics toolbox. Okay, and ask again, anyone you should you should ask specify that I see that a lot of you are using very simple, basic technique, which is not wrong, you know, like, you can derive your linear regression from scratch, but you don't have to. If you have the statistics about any you should ask LLM, if you have statistics, MATLAB statistics to box, which function you should use for linear regression, fit LM. Thank you. So let's find out what the Fit LM is. Fit LM. And you know, in MATLAB, when you start a parenthesis, it will tell you the functional form, so x and y is simply t and ft and that part. And you give you the regression fit the intercept. We don't worry about it. It's just a constant offset, but the slope is minus o2 so given this answer, let me ask someone, what is the analyzed row? Return On that day, based on this answer, tell me the Analyze row return on that date. So

Unknown Speaker  2:12:05  
9:12am, annualize, remember, not, not, not per month or per day or whatever, annualized.

Speaker 1  2:12:30  
And our kids got the right answer. He said 24% and that's pretty much the right answer. Let's see if I get the correct answer, all right, so let's assume that. So let's run this again to save it, because before, I didn't save the model. So this is the linear model, okay? And if you go to the linear model and you say, coefficient, okay, coefficient, and then it will give you this bunch of coefficient. And then I say coefficient, estimate, it will give you two estimate. And I want the second one, because the second one is the slope. So this is the slope, okay, this is the slope, but the row return is the negative of the slope, remember? So we will give you the row return equals to the negative, but this slope, wait a minute. What's the unit? Well, the unit depends on how we construct T, right? The T, remember, is 3579, 12. What's the units of that, that's month, month. So what we get in this coefficient is a monthly row return, which is kind of odd. So we don't want that we've multiplied by 12 and lo and behold, you get 24% exactly as Archie said, Excellent. But let's pause for a moment admire the magnitude This is saying that just buy and hold this corn future will give you 24% a year. Is that real? Does it really mean that? Well, what can derail Do you? Do you really get 24% a year by buying and holding corn? Future? What could go wrong? Anyone? What could derail our dollar dream of making 24% by buying and holding this contract? So

Speaker 1  2:14:47  
10 candidates somehow decide to multiply point o2 by times four by that is a meaningless concept. Please, don't do that. The slope is the row return the next. Negative result is row return. There's no need to multiply by the spot price, right? So 24% is the row return. But does that mean that we hold this contract guarantee we'll get 24% a year? What are the possibilities that will derail our dream of gold by following this advice, by, by, by trading on this particular predict prediction or back test, of course. Well, many people suggest, oh, we had a change. Well, yes, but ultimately, one of you got the correct culture, got the correct explanation. One is that they you have we have forgotten the spot return. What happened to spot return? Do we just ignore it? No, when you buy or sell a future contract, you are subject to the total return, not just the row return. So what happened to the spot return? Doesn't it affect our return a little bit, the consumption in this kind of momentum trading based on low return is that the sport return is white noise. White Noise means that one day is up, one day is done, and over the long term, it will cancel out. And indeed, if you go ahead and look at the average spot return is market, how do we find the aspect product done? There are two ways. One is that you just look at the last column of the raw data, look at the spot price, and then take the computer return based on the prospect. That's one easy way, which is exactly what my program does. By the way, my program just take the spot price and take the log and then do a regression over time, and that gives you a return of about 2% annualized. So you can see that the spot price generate a much lower return than the row return is one order of magnitude smaller. So on average, time is your friend in momentum. Okay, that's the key. Time is on your side by holding this future for long enough, your spot return is going to average you. It's much more lumber than the row return. But that is assuming that this row return remain constant over time. Remember, this row return is estimated from one snapshot in time. How do we know that if you do this tomorrow, you can try it, use the same mechanism, try it 10 days earlier, 50 days earlier, 100 days earlier, you get the same low return? I bet not. But you will find one peculiar fact, even though the magnitude of the row return does change every day, the sign doesn't, and that is the key to momentum trading in the futures market, the Reason momentum trading can be successful in the future market is that the sign of the row return does not change often, whereas the sport return, the sign changes every second, every day, every hour, and they therefore average out the sign of the row return oftentimes remain the same for long periods, weeks, months or years, even. And so if you're buying holding or short on hold does, if the sign doesn't change, they don't cancel every day, and you are reaping the return day in and out. Maybe the magnitude, sometimes it's big, sometimes it's small, but who cares? The key is that this is profitable for many days in a row. Let's look at the sign. So, by the way, here is the forward curve that we should have done the scatter plot on. And here, if you have done this analysis every day in the data, you plot the row return, analyze what will return, and you see that over this whole period, we have contango the sign is negative, and how many years, for three years,

Speaker 1  2:19:46  
you have the same sign, you just short it, and then day in and day out, you make money for three years. Can you believe it? And then it does switch. So it's not saying that this strategy has no risk when you switch. Age, you will lose money. You know, for some time. I don't know, maybe you lose money for a month, but you switch your sign, and you could become long, and then you will make money for another year. You just long, and it will make money for it. It doesn't switch sign every day. And of course, you know you are subject to the daily P and L of the spot return. You know you will get noise. But over this one year period, or over that three year period, the sign is the same every day, that's where the momentum profit come from. Just a minus for a moment, how amazing it is, and it is not a small magnitude, minus 24% some one of you have estimated, here it is plus. I mean, actually you estimated plus 20. You are here. Sometimes you go to 30 so you are holding here is like 20% here is minus 20% you short it, you get plus 20% return. So that's the power of the persistence of the row return, and the fact that the row return magnitude is much bigger than the road, Spot return, because it doesn't average out over time. Time is your friend. Time is the friend of the road return, time is the enemy of the sport. Return, which is good because we can't predict the spot return. I have no idea if tomorrow coins go up or down. I don't know what the weather. I don't have no sense of where coin will go tomorrow, but all I know is, look, if we are in contango, let's assume it will be in contango for some time until we sign that suddenly, the sign switches for many days in a row, maybe, well, you say, Well, how many days do we need to switch? You can switch on the first day you sign change, or you can switch after one month. You know that's these details. Is the one that you need to optimize in your trading strategy. So somebody, somebody asked, what is the fundamental reason why the sign doesn't change? Well, the fundamental reason is that the low return in the agricultural futures market has to do with storage costs, has to do with transportation costs, has to do with long term demand and supply. Maybe tariffs, for example, they don't change overnight. Transportation costs, storage costs, global, macro, economics, situation, tariffs, geopolitics, and so on so forth. They don't switch overnight. Well, maybe now they do. So I don't know if this strategy will probably it's for you to find out. You know, maybe one day Brazil has tariffs, and other months Brazil doesn't have tariffs. One month Canadian, you know, there's tariffs on Canadian corn and other man, there's none. This is just, you know, maybe nowadays it's different, but you should test it. But generally speaking, those factors, they don't change like frequently. And so slow return is based on these kind of fundamentals, and they don't change too quickly. It's not depend. The raw return is not depending on the weather. It's not like one day, it's a lot of rain. Oh, corn is going to be ruined, so price go up. Oh, one day the sunny and the corn growing very well. Harvest will be wonderful. They don't change like the weather. The raw return is not the spot return. They don't depend on the day to day expected supply. They don't depend on the day to day expected demand.

Speaker 1  2:23:57  
You cannot assess the question, how do you hedge for change in the row return, because our key offer is based on the persistence row. Return, you cannot hedge for it. You can hatch what you can hedge is the spot. Return, you can I will describe later, what are the strategies that you can remove the noise in the PnL. The noise in the PnL is due to the sport return. We can have a head strategy to remove the noise on the spot return, but we cannot hedge the row the change in the bow return. You have to go with the flow. If the sign change, you change your sign of your position. You might lose money for a short period. But hey, this is a long term strategy you can potentially hold for a year. So what is a few days of profit or loss going to mean? It doesn't mean anything. So there's no point to hedge the change in the more bad. The question is, how do you predict? How do you ensure that the change in sign of row return is persistent and not going back and forth? You know, maybe should you wait to confirm it after one month? You wait to confirm after one week? Or should you just switch? That is something you have to fine tune, but you cannot hedge. You cannot predict. Now maybe you can predict the change. Now I'm not saying that you probably can predict. If you have a another model that predict when the road return will switch on, you can use fundamental factors or economic factors to predict whether the storage cost is going up or down, that is possible. I'm not saying it's not possible to predict when the sign will change, but that is probably the advanced version of this. Course, I can tell you, I don't have any expertise in predicting that, but if I get, if I have been told to do that, I know what to how to proceed. I will, I will know I have ideas of how to go about it, but I haven't done it myself. You can ask your LLM, right, that's what your LM is for. How do you predict the change of the sign of the row return in the corn market? They will probably make a few internal suggestion to I have in mind some potential factors that might be predicted, but that's a you might call the advanced version of this, course.

Speaker 1  2:26:38  
So that's a good question. Is that is the hypothesis of the sign not changing true for non commodity futures? Yes, you will find out in an example, next, tomorrow, very interesting example where the sign also doesn't change very often, but it's not a commodity future. You'll find out. A little spoiler alert, is the fixed future, but we'll leave that for tomorrow in contango. So there's a question about this in contango, do we sell future and buy spot and in back rotation, vice versa? Generally speaking, that is correct. You got the right concept. He managed through. But often time the difficulty is, how do you buy spot? I mean buying spot? Oh, wait a second, no, no, no, that is not true in contango, you should sell future, but you do not buy the spot. Think about it. If you Oh, no, no, no, I scratch it, you're right. I apologize. Imagine you are very correct. If you sell the future in contango, you are benefit from the negative row return. So you're earning the row return, but you're short of sport return. What to do about it? Well, you buy the spot return, to neutralize the spot return. That is absolutely correct. You are absolutely correct. But the only difficulty is, how do you buy the spot? So here is a good example. It actually lead to the next exercise or next strategy. Suppose you have a crude oil future, okay, no, no, let's. Let's go to the simple example. Let's go to the example of the gold Okay, let's talk about gold future. You will answer it this. This question is a very natural segue to the next example gold future. It turns out that gold future have a negative row return, almost always Famous last words of a mathematician, almost always negative. So like you said, contango short, make money day in and day out, retire.

Speaker 1  2:29:20  
But how do you buy the spot? Do you go out to your local jewelry store and buy a lot of gold? Well, that's an easy way to do that. In gold, you can just buy an ETF called GLD. GLD actually has underlying asset is actual gold bars stored somewhere in a London vault. So the GLD asset value closely track the gold spot price, not a problem. So.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:01  
Not a problem.

Speaker 1  2:30:08  
You will, as part of this exercise, find out what the average return of this strategy, what's the R sharp ratio, but but before you go ahead with that, let let's think about another example, supposing that is instead of gold, you are trying to harvest the low return of crude oil. Let's say you imagine that the crude oil is now in contango, and you want to short crude oil futures. How do you buy the spot. Anyone practical way? I mean, of course, if you are Warren Buffett or you draw sorrows, no problem. But let's say you are a retail trader. Have about 10k in the account. How do you go out? Go about buying sport oil? Anyone you

Speaker 1  2:31:04  
be someone asked a question. Contango means that the future is greater than sport. That's correct, and therefore we sell future and buy spot. Correct, correct, yeah, but essentially it means that the road returns negative. So we should sell the future, and because you send the future, you have to hedge this negative spot return. You buy spot. That's correct either way. You got a very good way of looking at it by half. But go back to my original question. Supposing instead of trading gold, you are trading crude oil futures, how do you plan to go about hedging the spot return in a practical manner, not theoretical? Some people say, Oh, no problem. I shot the front month contract that won't do that won't do the fun month contract has as much return as the back month. If you are shorting the front month, you are not hedging. You are going to negate the raw return of the back month too. You're going to essentially be trading a can of spread the world return is canceled. You can't just short the front month to as a way to hedge the road return because, because the front month has the same, presumably similar row return as the back month, or any other month, won't work. Go to a gas station to buy Well, that is a solution, but it many way, in many ways, is not not ideal. Number one, gasoline spot price is different from the crude oil spot price. If you're trading crude oil contracts, it is not a good hat to use gasoline price to hatch it. So that doesn't is that one problem. The other problem, as you well know, is that, you know, it is pretty hard to, you know, if you're trading 10 contracts of crude oil, it is fairly hard to buy 10 barrels of gasoline from gas station. Not trivial. So there are two practical problems. How do we do that on a day in and day out basis, you know? And by the way, you know, you might be doing this regularly, right? You know, the crude oil contract might, you might one day you might long, one day you might short. It's very Oh, actually, there's another problem that might take care of the contango situation. What if you find that the crude oil futures is in backwardation? Okay, so how do you plan in that case? How do you plan to short? How do you plan to hatch the spot? Spot return contango? Maybe you can do it by going to a gas station. But how do you plan to hedge the your long Crude Oil Futures when it's in backwardation? Some people suggest ETF, yep, yep, and one of them particularly mentioned, XLE, and that is a good answer call options is not going to do it. Okay? So there are two RF suggests, two answers. One is the X LED and the other is uso, that these are two ETFs, one work, and the other doesn't. Can you pick the one that works and why? Why the why one works and why does the other not work? Anyone?

Speaker 1  2:34:53  
Which one work? Anyone? Think that. Okay, so araf said that, oh, uso work. Unfortunately, it doesn't. What is the composition of USO? Please. What does uso hold? What is the component constituents of USO. And do you know, what does uso hold?

Speaker 1  2:35:41  
You can ask your LLM, this is a good time to ask it exactly. Gaurav know it or he asked, he's a good way to get answer out of his LLM, the US old whole futures. So when you sell uso or you buy uso, you're essentially selling and buying futures. On one side, you have crude oil futures. On the other side, you also have crude oil futures. How is that a hatch of the spot price? Well, it might be a hedge of the spot price. Unfortunately, it's going to eliminate your row return as well. It doesn't work. On the other hand, XLE. What does XLE hold?

Speaker 1  2:36:35  
XLE hold energy stocks, exactly. Now this energy company, Chevron, Exxon. They have rights to oil reserve. They have rights to actual physical oil. If physical oil goes down, their asset goes down, and their stock price go down. If oil price go up, their asset go up, balance should go up. You know, balance should get stronger, and their stock price go up. Market value go up. Net net asset value go up. So if they are not long futures, they don't care about low return. This is real physical oil that is on their balance sheet. And so by buying the oil company stocks, you are, in effect, buying physical oil. Now, there are other factors affecting the market price. You know, maybe the CEO management, maybe it's terrible. It lose money. Every time it extract oil, it lose money. Maybe it's terrible because they're in the wrong country that geopolitics involved. Maybe they are terrible because they are too lazy to extract the oil. There are many factors that might affect their earnings, but they eat they average out because the ETF. They kind of average out. One is a better CEO than the other, but on average, what you are saying is that, on average, their net asset value is highly proportional to the physical oil spot price, not to the futures. One may be more efficient than the other in extracting oil, but on average, you are holding oil asset oil, physical oil, that is a good hedge for oil futures. You cannot use uso because uso itself is oil future. Okay, so, but we are getting ahead of ourselves. Let's go back to the goal example. So here's an exercise very even simpler. It's this is simpler exercise than the last one, I have given you a data set called input data, underscore, GC, blah, blah, blah. Now this is a back adjusted continuous contract. Let's take a look at the data itself. This is a back adjust the continuous contract. So in order to clear up the workspace, let's do a clear so it will erase the variable, and then we go to double click on this GC data set. Where is it? Where is it? Double click. Okay. So if you look at the a

Speaker 1  2:39:30  
price. This is only one contract, no problem. Now you say, Well, wait a minute. In the corn data set, you have a column for every contract. Why is it that suddenly, with gold, there's only one column, what happened to the other contracts? Well, that's where the back adjusted continuous contract come from. Even the data set has a lot of nuance, which is going to take up our next 20 minutes. What is the back adjusted continuous contract? It's to make our lives. Is easier to back test. Sometimes you can even, for this strategy, use the raw contract to back test, but then you have to manage the roll forward of each contract. Oh, today the contract expire. I need to sell it and buy the next nearby contract, or I have to cover it the short position and short the next contract. It is kind of hassle, much hassle. So what I have done is I put together all those contracts together in one time series, one supply series, so you don't have to manage this exploration, but if you do it the naive way, you could get this problem, the so called gap problem. So this might be one contract and it expired, and next contract is here, and the third contract might be like this. This is future price, and this is time, not time to expiration, but actual time. So what is the problem

Speaker 1  2:41:18  
with this picture? If i i can theoretically just create a time series that you know represent these different contracts. I hook them together. But there's a problem with this picture. There is this price gap when they roll over, and if you do a thumb back test, you say, Oh, I'm buying and holding this contract, and all of a sudden the price drop. In each case, when it go over, drop, its price drop. Well, you would say, well, your charge is terrible. You have a loss every time it go over. But is that loss real? No, it is like saying I'm buying, I'm holding, I'm long IBM, and at some point I'm tired of IBM, I'm going to buy Microsoft instead. I sell IBM and I buy Microsoft. Does that mean that? But of course, IBM Microsoft have different prices when I sell the IBM at here and I buy a Microsoft at a lower price. Does that mean that I lost money buying selling IBM and buying Microsoft? Of course not. The PNL is due to the time I buy IBM, to the time I sell IBM and the time I buy Microsoft, and the time I sell Microsoft, the PnL is not due to the fact that I sold IBM here and buy Microsoft. The gap in price between IBM and Microsoft is irrelevant. That's similar to the crude oil. If I am selling one contract and buying another contract, those price gap does not generate return. They don't generate PNL. But your back test program doesn't know that, if you hook them up into one contract, one time series and use a back test naively, they will think that this price suddenly drop $10 and lose money. That's not good. So the back adjustment means that, okay, let's take this contract as is, the most recent contract. Let's take it as is, but the next, the older contract, we can't we have to adjust it by, for example, adding an offset, move it down, move all the price down so there's no price gap here. And then even older contract, move it down further, so that again, there's no price gap here. So you have to eliminate those price gap. That's called back adjustment. Now there are multiple ways to do back adjustment. This is one way to add and subtract the gap price the price gap. There's another way, which is multiply a multiply to eliminate the return gap instead of price gap. Each method has its pros and cons, and I have discussed their pros and cons in great detail in my algorithmic trading book. So if you want to know how to do back adjustment and which method to use, go look up algorithmic trading the chapter on futures. But I've done that for you. I have properly back adjusted this continuous contract so you won't suffer from the gap, and that's why, if you look at the data, it's just one call. No worries about it. But there's another nuance, much nuance in trading futures, well, they have lots of new and trading stock too. But, you know, we talk about futures today, so we talk about new ones. It's very complicated. It. Why do I specify that it has to be captured at 16 o'clock? Why don't I just say, Hey, this is the daily future price. And here the GLD you know, you can, you can look at the GLD data. We can, we can clear this and upload the GLD data. Let's see what the GLD data is here. Input data, ETF. The ETF data has multiple symbols, so you just pick the right symbol. You take Excel you're interested in. No, we pick GLD. I'm sorry, GLD, but you look for the column that says GLD, and that's it, right. Where's GLD, E, F, G, here, turn the fifth column, and then you you got the prices Open, High or close. Let's just pick the close price. So the pro price, you pick the the column, 25th 25

Speaker 1  2:46:05  
don't want this T 25 here, this column, this is the price of GLD, right? You just extract that column and you're in business. That's the closing price of the GLD. And here, why can't I just use the settlement price for GC and then run a back test strategy. Anyone. Why can't I just do that? Why do I have to specify 16 o'clock?

Speaker 1  2:46:48  
I see a couple question my blog might have a blurb on the back adjustment you can, you know, take through it. I have so many blog posts. It might be in one of them, but I would recommend just getting my book is is most direct rate of you know, block is less organized and less polished, so the book always has a more polished and accurate description. So another question is, can the spread is the answer? No, can the fact is not the answer in this case, and then there's Isaac asked whether you can use put. The problem with using options to hatch is that it introduces other risk factors, such as theta. We don't want to get into those complications. There's gamma, there's theta. Options has multiple you um, return, source of returns, or risk factor that is characterized by their Greeks. We don't want to deal with those so we don't use options to hatch the SWAT return. It's much easier just to use a ETF to hatch the SWAT return. Okay, so let's, let's see who can answer that. Why do we have to use intraday data capture at 16 o'clock instead of using the settlement prices, the daily settlement price of gold contract, for this back test? Okay?

Speaker 1  2:48:40  
Well, you should ask your LLM, at what time is the GC gold contract settlement price obtained from this from the CME, ask your LLM, when is the settlement price obtained for GC on the CME? Let me know the answer.

Speaker 1  2:50:06  
Let me see, the settlement price is taken as a specific time. I mean, they will do a free walk, but they publish the settlement price at a specific time is not variable. It's only the the you know is only that they don't capture one specific transaction, but the price itself is published at a fixed time. Capture a fixed time so you

Unknown Speaker  2:50:44  
Yes, I think

Speaker 1  2:50:46  
Manny Candon Got it 1:30pm I don't know if it's 1:30pm Central Time. I think it's 1:30pm Eastern time. I think your airm might have hallucination. My understanding is that it ends at 130 Eastern time. But I may be wrong. So yeah, exactly. Isaac confirmed that this is 130 Eastern Time, correct? That's my understanding as well. So if you use the settlement price, you are capturing the price at 130 and then, on the other hand, the GLD daily price is captured at 4pm 16 o'clock, because that's when the US stock market goes. Here is a key warning whenever you run a arbitrage strategy between two different markets, make sure that you use intraday prices at least for one because the pool prices have to be captured at the same time. You cannot backtest an arbitrage strategy with prices captured at two different times. I you know, I did it once, not too long ago, on the peso future I mistakenly arbitrage the spot price against the peso future price, and you get a very amazing profit. That is all fictitious, because the spot price was captured at 5pm and the future price was captured as 4pm there's one hour gap, and it make it looks very profitable, but that's all fictitious is very key to remember that if you have two different markets, like the sport versus future market, or one saw exchange versus Another solar exchange. You cannot use the closing price to barber charge. You have to at least make sure that you use the intraday price for one market to match the closing price time of another market. That is very important. It is in modern beyond momentum strategy, beyond futures, believe me, you will experience this bug in your future arbitrage training program. Don't if you remember today's lesson, you won't, but chances are you will commit this error. And before you get too excited about the profit, check your time of your data. Take make sure the time stamps match. Okay, that's the two new ones, even for a simple strategy. But let me invite you, in the next five, six minutes to back test this strategy. Simple, right? What is this strategy? It doesn't even have a trading strategy. It's just shorted and long GLD and tell me what the Sharpe ratio is, assuming a 2% risk rate. Now, actually, let's not even start this back test. Now I'll let you do it at homework. Remember two or more exercise, one

Speaker 1  2:54:06  
Oh, I think that the first one you have already someone already answered about the peso future this. So this is the only homework exercise compute the Sharpe ratio of this arbitrage strategy. All right, short, GC, long, GLD, what's the Sharpe ratio assuming a 2% risk free rate. Now, I mentioned risk rate because that's something interesting. You don't always need to subtract the risk free rate when you are compute computing a sharp ratio. Let me give you an instance, supposing that your strategy is trading cool off futures, only nothing, sometimes short, sometimes long, and your cooler future trading strategy generate 10% return, and somebody say, Okay, so what's the Sharpe ratio? A 10% return with a 10% annualized volatility. What's the Sharpe ratio? Do you or do you. Two and you have a 2% risk free rate. Do you or do you not have to subtract the risk free rate in computing the Sharpe ratio? In that case,

Speaker 1  2:55:18  
you're trading nothing but the crude oil futures. Do you have to subtract the risk rate in computing in sharp ratio? He must, he measures that No. And Carla said, Yes, he must write. You don't have to compute the risk rate. Why? Because remember, if you put $1 million in your trading account, and you trade crude oil futures. What is the total return? The total return is not just the trading strategy return. You also earn a risk free rate already. So when you compute the Sharpe ratio, if you club ratio, if your return is only the strategy return, you don't have to subtract the risk rate, because there's no funding cost. Remember, trading futures does not have a funding cost. There's no opportunity cost. Your Cash is there is not generating, is not losing any interest rate, so there's no reason to compute excess return minus, you know, excess return is just the futures return. It's not the future return minus the risk free rate, because you are not losing the interest when you trade futures, you are earning the interest. So the excess return is, is the future strategy return another situation, supposing I am long IBM and short Microsoft, $1 million long IBM and short, $1 million Microsoft and this portfolio earn 10% return a year. Do I have to subtract the risk rate for the Sharpe ratio

Speaker 1  2:57:14  
against one? Simachio said no, and many, Camden said yes, once again, Himachal is correct, no in a long, short dollar equal strategy, you also don't need to subtract the risk rate, because, why? Because this is also require no funding. There's no funding cost. The short side is funding the long side, the short side generate credit interest and the long side generate debit interest, and the two cancel. Now, if they don't cancel normally Exactly, there may be a 75 basis point difference, but we'll forget about that for now. Now, finally, in this situation, we are short, gold future, it generates some return, and we are long. GLD, do we have a subtractive risk free rate? Do in this strategy, anyone,

Speaker 1  2:58:20  
yes, he must have got it free, free strike three times in a row. He's right. I thought he's just a robot. And just keep saying no, no, no, but no, the last one is right, yes. In this case, you have to subtract risk rate. Why? In shorting GC, you don't care about the interest rate. It doesn't it doesn't generate interest. Doesn't cost you any funding. There's no funding problem with that. But remember, you're buying GLD. GLD is the ETF. When you have $1 million and you buy $1 million GLD, your money disappeared. You're losing the interest. So the excess return of this combined strategy is the return on the GC and the return on the GLD minus 2% because you $1 million has disappeared. So the excess return above the risk free rate, you have to subtract the risk rate. That's why, in this case, the Sharpe ratio, you need to subtract 2% so with that in mind, and now that we have we are at the end of our day, 10 o'clock in Eastern time, I invite you to back test this strategy as a homework and let us know what your reach out is okay. Let me see if there any remaining questions for today? I'm glad you're not a robot. Imagine you almost sounds like a artificial general intelligence to me, but I'm glad you're not so wonderful, and I hope you all have a good rest of the. And have time to do this exercise, and I will see you all tomorrow. Thank you for coming. Bye.

