Speaker 1  0:02  
Hello, everyone. So before we begin today's session, can you please first confirm that I'm audible and my screen is visible, so you should be able to see your PPT with the title a brief introduction to Python, so you can just say yes or no. Okay, okay, okay, thank you. Thank you. Okay. So, hello everyone. So welcome to today's session on Basics of Python programming. So this is the first official you know coding lecture of the impact, though, I'm pretty sure that you guys would have already gone through the material, the primer modules, which has Python for trading. However, this is the official first coding lecture of Python. So this lecture is designed to provide, you know, a foundation in python programming, especially specifically, it is tailored for those you know, who want to enter the domain of algorithmic and quant trading. So it is tailored for that. It won't be a normal coding lecture in Python, but we would cover stuff which is relevant to this field, the quant trading field, okay, so, so, whether you're from, you know, a finance background, who is looking to pick up programming skills, or a seasoned coder, like you have, like, a really good developer, and we are very comfortable with coding. However, you are interested in applying coding to the markets. This session would, you know, set the groundwork for you know, all of you. So, as mentioned in the prerequisites you know of this lecture, it would be easier for you guys to follow better if you have already completed the primer, as I mentioned. So, so that you know at least what I'm speaking the terminology or the code lines are at least familiar, and you know, you will feel like I've seen it somewhere, so you can relate. So it would be helpful, even if you haven't, it's okay. Please do not worry. Just please follow, or rather, try to understand the logic or the concepts that I'm trying to cover. And then later you can, you know, sit with the notebook, which is obviously already uploaded on the LMS, so you can just take a look at it later, and you can, you know, use the recording and, you know, go through it. Yeah, so I would take, of course, you are free to put your questions in the chat box, so we do have harsh the TA or the teaching assistant who would help me answer the questions. Also, I would also take a look at the questions at regular intervals after I complete a certain set of topics. Also, I would give a break of around 10 minutes or 90 minutes into the lecture. Okay, so yeah, so let's get started with today's session. Okay, so, Nitish Kumar, no need to install Anaconda. So actually you were supposed to, so it would have been there in the prerequisites. I will not be covering the installation of Anaconda in the session like it is expected that you guys already installed the Anaconda and have the Python notebook for this particular section session that is PBQ, 01, open at your end, so you can just take a look at it while I'm running through the notebook right a Third way. Yes, you can work with VS code also. But for beginner level, Jupyter Notebook is you know, is preferable. However, if you are very comfortable with VS code, please, you can go ahead and use VS code. Okay, so let's get started. So first, let's cover today's agenda. So sorry, yeah, so we'll cover so there are, like, around five, six slides where I would be covering basic introduction to Python. So it will be pretty quick. And after that, we will continue the rest of the session working with a Jupyter Notebook file. Yeah, so that's about it. So about the Jupiter notebook, I will tell you in detail what we'll cover when we come to that session. So a little bit about myself before we get started. So my name is manusha Rao, and I work with the ePAT content team here at quantity as a quant researcher. So coming to my education, I've completed my bachelor's in technology, in electronics, from Pune university. And also I have done my post graduation in in MBA finance from Cardiff University, UK. So work experience, I. I do have experience in the IT industry. And apart from that, specific to finance, I have worked as a credit rating analyst in the SME departments, SME department of crystal in India. So it is one of the India's most well known credit rating agency. So work there, and I've also worked as an equity research analyst with an with a boutique investment firm, and yeah, and after that, here, I'm with quantity. So okay, that's a little bit about myself. So let's begin the session. Okay, so why? Why are we using Python? Okay, so there might be other languages also, but why specifically Python? Just let's cover a few reasons. So the first being that it's a general purpose programming language. That means that Python isn't just for quant finance or finance or a specific domain in general. Okay, so it can be used in web development, automation, data science, AI and so many more. So there are a variety of areas where Python can be used in different industries for different use cases, right? So, so that makes it versatile, and once you learn it here for your quant trading purposes, those same skills can be transferred to many other areas also. Then, of course, it's open source, so it's free, so you guys can just download it, use it directly. You can even contribute to improving it through GitHub, right? So there are no licensing costs involved, involved. So that's the reason why, you know, Python has become so widely adopted, including in financial institutions, so mostly for research and back testing. Python is widely used in the quant domain, right? And it is one of the easiest to read and learn. So, as you will see and or you might have already observed when you went through your primers, that it's syntax, it's it's almost like English, okay, so you don't need, like, really fancy computer degree to basically learn Python, if you sit and practice and go through the material or the documentation, I'm pretty sure you know a person who doesn't have you know knowledge about coding will be able to pick it up. Okay, it's it's not difficult. So this makes it idle for traders, analysts and financial professionals who are just starting to code. It's easy to pick up because of its readability and its syntax being so simple, then it is the language of quant trading and finance as a as I just mentioned, and it has a huge community and libraries. So the thing is, there are a variety of libraries for different for different purposes. So for example, you might have heard these names, like pandas, which is used for data analysis and manipulation. Then there is a library called NumPy, which is used for, you know, numerical computing. Then there are plotting libraries like matplotlib and Plotly. Okay, so for for, you know, plotting some graphs, or some visualization of a stock prices and things like that. So there's package almost for everything. So even for machine learning, we have a different set of packages like scikit learn and deep learning, Keras SK learn. So we have a variety of packages for different use cases. So that's the reason why Python is so popular and we're using it. So just to give you an to give you guys an idea as to why we're using Python

Speaker 1  8:49  
then, so let's briefly cover how Python works. Of course, you don't have to know the complete detail, but I'll just give you an overview of how it works in general, right? So you can think of Python as you know, like a software application on your computer, okay? So, so you know any application, so any other application on your computer, like Chrome, Excel or zoom. So the only difference in layman terms are, I can give you guys is like, you know, Chrome Excel or zoom right? You just see the icon you click on, suppose zoom right, and then you want to join a meeting. You just click the Join on meeting, and then you join the meeting. However, the back end processing is done by the computer. We don't have to give any instructions to it. We just click on the button and the action happens right. However, in Python, it is, of course, a special kind of application. You can say it's a programming language, which means that Python expects you to give it a set of instructions. And now, what are these instructions? They are called this. These instructions are called. Code. So the Python code that we write, right? And then what happens is, of course, we give it in a specific format. We have certain syntax, we write the code in that particular syntax, and then Python interprets this code, okay, so it will it will take that code, what we write, it will take then it converts into a language which is understandable by the machine, like the CPU. So we have a high level language that we write, and that is converted into a low level code which is understandable by the machine. So that part is done by Python interpreter. And then after that, what it says is, so for example, I say, okay. So on the screen, as you can see, there is print hello world, if you see my cursor. So this is the command that we give Python that okay, I want to see hello world printed on the screen, right? So this is the instruction I'm giving, okay, to the computer. Now, what Python interpreter does is it will convert this, okay? So this, this can, this is converted into ones or zeros or some other complex low level language which we are not worried about, or we don't need to know about it. So it converts into its own language. And then what happens is, then the computer understands, okay, now I need to print hello. World. So on the screen, you will see this Hello World string. So that's the basic working what happens at the back end when we run a code, right? So to be more precise, when we say python, we actually refer to the interpreter or kernel. Now to give you a visual view of what I just explained. Yeah, you can just go through this, right? So here you can see you write the Python code, so you give the instruction, then we have the Python interpreter. It will read the line by line. So if there are 10 lines of code, it will read it line by line, line by line, convert each line into machine readable instructions. Okay. And then, okay, then, now the computer understands that. Okay, I need to print hello world so, and then you can see hello world on the screen, right? So that's how Python works. Okay. So next, now, how do we interact with Python? So now, where do I write my code, right? So now I don't know, why should I write my code? So there are a few ways by which we can write the Python code on different environments. So the first and the most easiest and the most raw way of writing a Python code is using the Python interactive shell. Okay. Now, what is that? So if you're using Windows, you have to simply go and, you know, type command prompt. Okay, I'm pretty sure you guys are familiar with what is a command prompt and terminal for a Mac, you have to just type in in your search bar, and then you will get this window, okay? And then so you have to just type in Python. As you can see, I'm pointing it with the with my cursor here, Python, okay, and then it will give you the Python version that is installed on your PC that is 3.1 so on mine, it is 3.1 3.5 and then you will get these three these. If you get this, this symbol right, these three or greater than signs, that means that the Python environment is activated, and now you can run your like lines of code here. The thing is that you write one line of code and then you will have to print enter. So you cannot write 10 lines of code and execute it all in one book. It's like it lets you write and execute Python code one line at a time. Okay, so this is basically, if you're learning Python and you want to see, okay, what is output of each line of code. So for example, now here, if you say print hello, and then you press enter, it will give you Hello. Okay, so now, from math import pi, so math is a library, okay, which is an inbuilt library in Python. So I'm importing the standard value of pi, which is 3.141 you guys already know this, so we're just trying to execute Python code line by line using Python interactive shell. This is just for your knowledge. You don't have to know it just another way of writing Python code. Then another way is using an online interpreter. So we will be using Jupyter Notebook for this session. There is also Google collab. I will demonstrate how to use Google collab in another five minutes, and there is replied. So you can use whichever whichever tool you want for Python, whatever you're comfortable with. So that's not an issue. We are using Jupyter notebook because it. Is easy, and you can run your code lines like line by line, and you can see the output later, right? So it's easy for debugging and learning. That's reason why we are using Jupiter notebook. Also you can write a script, so you can use notepad plus plus sublime or VS code, okay? And then you write your whole code, 10 lines of code, and then you can save it as your file name.py, the.py extension is important, and then you can run it from the terminal. So that's another way of writing a Python code then. So using IDEs that is integrated development environments or notebooks. So the popular ID is somebody just so somebody just mentioned that, can we use VS code? Yes, you can use VS code. Pi charm, Tony, you can use right then, Jupiter Notebooks, Google collab, I just spoke about it. And so I'm pretty sure you guys have gone through installed Anaconda, and are familiar with how Anaconda looks and how to open a Jupiter notebook from that. So I will also show you that in some time when we start, you know, going through the Jupiter note. So Right? So features, features of Python. It is a relatively small core language, that is, it's simple and minimal core meaning that, you know, it's built in syntax and keywords are very simple and not complex. So that's the meaning of small code language and in common use, augmented with many high quality libraries, as I just mentioned about, the pandas and different libraries for different use cases, we will import them depending on the actions or tasks we need to perform. So if we are dealing with some machine learning problem, then we will import those specific libraries. If we are talking about technical indicators, then we will get the Talib library. So depending on what is our action that we want to perform, we will, you know, import that specific library. So a standard feature of Python programs is it begins with a series of import statements. So as you can see on your screen, there's a screenshot of various libraries that we have imported. So import pandas NumPy, date, time, matplotlib, pandas, data reader, so on and so forth. So these libraries are called modules or packages also. So this, this terminology is used interchangeably, modules, packages, libraries. So, yeah, so I just wanted to highlight that so you will find these used interchangeably,

Speaker 1  17:58  
right? So I would just like to highlight something that in this I want to quickly highlight how AI, you know, how we can use AI, because now everybody is using AI, a chat, GPT or Gemini for their you have some issues. You just go and type in, right? So I just want to just highlight can how we can use AI to help us assist and help us learn Python more effectively. Okay, so, right, so I just open Google collab now, okay, so let me just Open Google to lab.

Unknown Speaker  18:54  
So let's open a new notebook.

Speaker 1  19:07  
Okay, so the first use case that I'm sorry, the first use case is understanding confusing error messages. So it won't be a confusing error message now that I will, but I'll just make a mistake, a deliberate mistake, to illustrate what I'm trying to say. Okay, so I'll run this line of code.

Speaker 1  19:39  
Okay, so it says module found, not found and okay, it's just giving me some error, right? So what you can do is, so now, since Google collab has inbuilt Gemini in it, so what happens is, I can just say, explain error. I'm clicking on explain error, it will explain me what the error is. Okay. So. And it will also give me the correction, right? So if you can see in red, is the line of code that I wrote, and it's giving me the correction here, right in green. So I wrote Panda, but of course, the keyword is pandas, so I'll say, accept and run. And there you go. It's it's successfully run, right? So this is a very simple case. However, there'll be, like so many lines of code, and there would be some error that you guys will encounter. So either if you're using Google collab, yes, you can just do it on the fly here. Gemini is inbuilt in collab. Or if you're working with Jupiter notebook or anything wherever, you can just copy, paste the error, put it on your on a chat, GPT, Gemini, or any AI tool that you're using, and you can use it to debug your code faster. Right? Then the next is asking for example code. So you can just say, how do I write? Or let me just copy, paste this. How do I write a loop that prints prime numbers? Okay, so this will give me a code. It can or cannot work. It can be fully correct or not correct, but I'm assuming it's a very simple code, so it should work. So yeah, there you go. So this, this is the, this is the code that jamina has given me, and I've got the output also here, right? So this is successful because it's a simple code and it's easy, right? And the last one is getting explanations for code snippets. So for example, you know, maybe you're going through some code on GitHub that interests you, and you're like, Oh, this is very interesting. So let me go to the code. However, you're not able to understand what is happening in the code. So it could be a 5060, lines of code and you're just not sure what is happening. So you can just take, like, okay, these four lines I'm not understanding. Let me take these four lines of code and I'll put it and you can just ask the the LLM that okay. Can you please explain what is this? You know In layman terms, you can just prompt it accordingly. And you can, you can, of course, enhance your learning this way, right? However, now you might ask me, then, why are we learning Python when AI is only generating the code, right? So I've generated the whole the prime numbers code in front of you, right? So I would say, see, AI can write the codes for such simple tasks like printing prime numbers or Fibonacci series, so on and so forth. But what happens is right for us. So we are going to, of course, write some quant trading strategies, which maybe we want to take live in the market, right? So first thing is, you will give it a strategy in words that okay, I want to move in crossover strategy with so and so, stop loss or take profit. You will give all the constraints. However, for you, okay, it will even generate a code, and it might even run successfully, but you need to verify if that strategy logic is actually correct. Have my constraints been actually implemented properly? Is it actually working as expected, right? So for this understanding, so for this understanding, we need to know what Python is. How do I code? You need to have a basic understanding of this, the programming language. Of course, you can take help of AI, generate a basic code, and then you can, you know, improvise it and customize it according to your needs, right? So, yeah, any questions like, so can you please share the presentation file to us? Yes, this will be uploaded on the LMS so Nitish, so don't worry, right? So that's a little bit about Python introduction that I wanted to cover using these slides. So let's quickly jump on to the Jupiter notebook, which is the most important thing. So yeah, so let's just move on to the Jupiter notebook that you can see my notebook, right? Basics of Python programming. Yeah, right. Fine. So just to set your expectations clear, I will not be covering every, every, everything in detail. Okay, so I will, of course, take time and explain where it's required, but please do not expect me to explain every detail or every code line. Okay, I'll try my best, of course, even if based on the questions, I will of course, take up that specific query. So as you can see on your screen, this is a fast paced introduction to python programming language, mostly by the. Of examples. So how this will work is that, you know, I will take a topic, okay, so for example, let it be a print statement, okay, so I will explain what it is or how it is done, and then we will take some examples, okay, examples, and I will run it in the Jupyter Notebook cells, and we will see the output. So that way it's easier for you guys also to understand and grasp, you know, the concepts or how it goes about, right? So, right. So about today's agenda. So we finished the brief intro to Python slides. Then now what we are going to do is getting familiar with Jupiter Notebooks. Okay, so we'll see what are cells, the different types of cells in Jupiter notebook and the mods. Then I'll cover a sample program. Then Python has a calculator print statement or some data structures or very which are useful for our purpose, that is quant trading. Then a few libraries, that is the numpy, matplotlib and pandas, I'll touch upon it. And also the most interesting part, which would be that, how would I use, or rather, maybe we can just extend this basic knowledge to generating some trading signals and trading signals. So which is our end goal? Right? We want to generate trading signals and make some profits in the market, possibly, right? So, so I'll cover something so relevant to our course, okay, towards the end. And also I'll cover, I'll touch upon for loops and conditional statements with a trading exam, right? So any questions, am I going too fast? Also the slides? Yes, I've gone a bit fast because it's just theory and there's nothing much, so I wanted to spend a little more time on the notebook, so that's why I kind of just skim through it. Okay. Okay, this is fine. Thank you. Zubin, fine, right? Okay, so I'm pretty sure that you guys know that

Speaker 1  27:15  
a notebook, Jupiter notebook, is made up of cells. So if you can see, I'm adding a few cells here. So these are typically called cells. Okay, so Can someone tell me that there are two types of modes in Jupiter notebook? Okay, so there are two modes. So one is where I'm writing like this. Okay, this, this is a, this is where I'm writing the code, and this is not code, right? So if you guys have gone through the prime, I just want to check if you guys know that, what is this cell called and this? What is the difference between two? Or you can just tell me, what is this cell, and this cell, the name of this, these modes that I'm operating in, okay, I've got one answer, okay, code and markdown, right? That's correct. So what when I'm writing like this, right? Import pandas as PD, and I can see these two square brackets here. This is called a code mode in the Jupiter notebook. Okay, so, and also you can see it says code here, if you can see the cursor of my of my cursor now, however, once I go here, this is still code mode, right? And now let's say I change it to markdown. Can you see the two square brackets have disappeared. So that means this is a markdown mode. So markdown mode is typically used to comment your code. So for example, you have 100 line of code, or five sections of a code like so in trading. So first is like, we fetch the data, then you clean the data, and then you generate trading signals. So there's a flow. So maybe you want to, you know, divide your code into, you know, blocks, and you want to define the blocks, okay? So the first is, you know, I am importing, I am importing the data and cleaning it. So for that, right, I can just say, import the trade data, something I'm just randomly writing. So now this note that there are no square brackets, and it's in Markdown mode, and I'll just do an Enter. So this is, this is when you want to write comments, right, and this is where you write your code, right? So there are two modes. That is, there are two types of cells, that is code and markdown, right? I hope that's clear. So this is all marked down. So even if I go and see if I'm if I'm just pressing on these cells, it says, this is markdown, and this is markdown, this is code. Just see, just observe this. Part. This is markdown, Markdown and this is code, right? So this is what we've written. So we work with two types of cells, code and markdown. So in Markdown, the markdown cell is to write in human language like English. So Markdown is a computer language in itself. So of course, we are not going to go into the details of, how do I write the markdown code? What are the what are the do I have to use a hash or a dash or that? All you can just check from here. So there is a markdown cheat sheet as to how you can so for example, if you can see this is in blue color. So how do I get this? So this all would be is covered in this part. So you can just refer to this link where I've written here, and just you can see, so this is very similar to the HTML language. However, this is not this is out of the scope of this lecture. So so you can just remember that code is for writing our code, the Python code and Markdown is for commenting and writing English like language, so that it's more easier for us to traverse through the code, right? Okay, so we finished with two types of cells. Now let's go with the modes, two modes that the Jupiter notebook operates in, okay, so as you can see here, one is edit mode and one is command mode, okay, so that is very simple. So let me show you here. Okay, so when I just do this, right? So observe. So when the moment I so I'll press on this, and when I come here, right? So if I'm just, if I'm just going through the cells like this, right, I'm scrolling like this. This is called command mode, because I'm not doing any editing. However, if I, if I take the cursor and just double click, right? That means now I can edit. That means I can write something on so it's as simple as that, right? So if you can see her, there are some shortcuts you either press enter or double click the mouse. So that's what I did. So once I do a double click here, also,

Speaker 1  32:16  
if I do a double click here, also, now this is an edit mode, because now I can see the cursor, and I can do like I can edit it. However, just if I'm if I just do like this, and then I scroll right. This is just command mode. This is very basic. Actually. It's not nothing very important. But just for you guys to know that, okay, there are these modes and there are the cells. Are important, important, of course, the cell and the markdown mode, the code and the markdown mode. Now there are a few shortcuts, so when you're working with Jupiter notebook, so you can, as you can see, if you're in command mode. So that is if I'm, if I am, if I'm in this mode, right? So I can do a Can you see there is a cell which is created. So let me select this one. Can you see class exercise one here? Okay, there's class exercise one here. I just press A. A means above. So if I say A, can you see a cell is created? Okay, now let's create a cell below class exercise one cell. So I just press B, and there's a cell created below B right now. Say, I want to delete. Okay, so let's delete this. This particular one, okay, the one below the class exercise one, let's delete that. So the shortcut for that is, would anyone want? Anyone would want to take a guess what would be the shortcut to delete the cell keyboard shortcut.

Unknown Speaker  33:46  
Okay, it's DD, correct. So you have to press dd, dd. It's not just simple D, but DD,

Speaker 1  33:56  
two, two key strokes of DD, okay, so one after the other, dd, right? So this you can try, if your Jupiter notebook is open in front of you can try this. So I've just covered few basic ones. So that is, create a cell above, create a cell below, delete and mark down. This you guys can go through later, okay, so that was when you are in command mode right now, however, if I am in the edit mode, okay, this edit mode, that means the cursor is there, okay, in that case, I'll have to use an extra key that is, escape a, okay, escape a, if I'm in the edit mode, or If you are like, Okay, I just don't want to, you know, remember all this, can you see there are, there is a created duplicate of the cell. So you can create a cell here. You don't have to know the shortcuts is there. Some people do prefer using keyboards, so the shortcuts are there. So you can suit yourself and do. Like you can work accordingly.

Speaker 1  35:09  
Okay, so class exercise one, so now we've covered a concept. So class exercise one, create two cells below this cell, okay, and two cells above this cell, right? So, so it's pretty straightforward. So two cells above this cell would be a, a, so I've created. Two cells below the cell would be BB, you've created. So, class, exercise, one, that right? So I hope that's clear, right? So now let's go to class exercise two. Okay, so what is a class exercise two that print the line? Hello World. You can write your code below this line. So this is very simple, so I don't have to explain anything. So it would be print. Print is the inbuilt function so the string that I want to print goes in single or double inverted commas, okay, which are enclosed in parentheses, right? And I do a Shift Enter, and I get the output, hello, words, right? This is very simple, so I'm not going to explain too much, right? Okay, so that is done now, of course, for people, for people who are new to Python, so there'll be lot of functions, or functions or data types even, right, you know you're not aware of or you don't know how to use a particular function. And of course, for example, let me give you a PD dot read CSV, which we will cover towards the end of the session. So it has a number of arguments in that function. However, you don't know what are those arguments, right? So maybe you would want to know, okay, you know, help me, what are the parameters in that particular function? So you will so there is a way in Python, two ways, actually, where you can ask Python for help and get information about that particular functionality, right? So in Python, you can do it in two ways. One is to prefix with a question mark. So you say question mark. And then I'll demonstrate this. One way is using a question mark, okay. And second way is you say hell, okay, the word hell. And in the brackets, the the the name of the particular function that you want to access help for, right? So let's do class exercise three a right now. It says, Try using question mark to check the documentation on the print function, right? So let's go say question mark and print right and Shift Enter. So it's giving me the help that is what it does, prints out, prints the value to a stream or sys it'll give you the output as to what is it about, and it'll explain you what that functionality is, right? So let's even do the second way of using help in Python. That is H, E, l, p, in parenthesis, print, so that will also print the help on the print function.

Speaker 1  38:42  
So yeah. So I think this is, this was pretty simple. So we covered what was the, what is, what is like, a basics of Jupiter notebook, the different types of cells, the modes in which we can operate. Then we saw a print function, basic printing and how we can access help for that particular function. The ways, right? So this is pretty straightforward, so now let's what we'll do is we'll go through a sample program, okay, so please do not worry about the details of this program or the detail code lines. Okay, I'll just explain overall what this function, this code, is trying to do. I'll tell you what, what I what I intend to do by covering this code. Okay, so first, let's just run through the code. Okay. So, yeah, so, okay, fine. Let's go from here. So I have imported two libraries here, so matplotlib, so can anyone just at least guess that? What is matplotlib used for? I even spoke about it very briefly, but just matplotlib, okay, plotting, okay for plotting okay for. Cool. So yeah. So matplotlib for plotting and NumPy for numerical computation and use usage of arrays, actually, that is a main usage of NumPy for us, right? So, as you can see, there is a code line here which says a variable t, okay, and it has NP, which is NumPy library from NumPy, we there is a function called A, R, A, N, G, E, and there are some numbers here. So what this is doing is it's creating a range of numbers, okay, between zero to two, okay. Between zero to two, it's creating a range of numbers with an interval of 0.01, okay. So you can, of course, access help on this function. The documentation will be there on this particular function. So you can do it. You can go through it. It's simple is it will just create a range of numbers for you, so from between zero to two, at intervals of 0.01, you will, you will generate a list of numbers now with that. So this will have a list of numbers with it. Then what we are doing is we are creating a Can you see NP, dot sign. So this is typically a sine wave, a sinusoidal function. Okay, I'm pretty sure you guys would know what a sinusoidal function is. So we are trying to create that here. And s2 is basically an exponential decay function, okay, so we will visually also see it, but this is exp is an exponential function, but because of the minus d, it's a decaying curve, okay, and then what we do is we are just multiplying these two curves and storing it in s3 Okay, so these are, these are the two functions, or sinusoidal and an exponentially decaying function. Then we are multiplying it. Now, this whole part that you can see, this part, okay, this is all plotting, and just telling Python that I want the plots in a particular way. Okay? So a plot, and then I need a grade, grade like the lines within the graph, so that we will just see what happens. So please do not worry about all these parts, because this will be covered eventually in other lectures also. But this is just a basic code in Python, right? So, and we what we are doing is PLT, dot show, right? So let's run this code and see what output we get.

Speaker 1  42:33  
Shreyas is asking, what is sign? So sign is s, I, N, E, the sinusoidal function. So as you can see on the screen, this is a sinusoidal function. So in trigonometry, you might have seen sine, cosine, tan, so that sinusoidal, right? So, yeah. So this is your first s1 the sinusoidal function, right? This is your exponentially decaying function that we saw s2 and s3 which is a multiplication of this, and this is giving you this right. So now, now, as you can see, this plot is looking like 123, neatly arranged. It has a grade. It has x axis, y axis label. So all these details are given through these codes here. So this axis 0123, means zero, like zero here, like, so this is the zero at position for matplotlib. So there I want my s1 the second one I want s2 the third one I want s3 right? So this is In layman terms. I'm explaining this code. But can you see like in 20 lines of code, right? So imagine generating these numbers. So imagine generating zero to numbers between zero to two, okay, at the intervals of 0.01 using Excel. Okay, you would need so many rows, right? Like you have to traverse through so many rows in Excel to create it. However, with just one line of code here, we have just created the numbers. We've used those numbers to create a sign function and exponential decay function, right? So as you can see, the sign function and the exponentially decaying function here, you can see it is doing zero to two here, right? So what I was trying to say here is, in 20 lines of code, we could generate these plots and these neat looking plots, which are formatted really well, right? So the thing is that there are certain things that Excel, of course, can do, but it is cumbersome, and coding makes it much easier. It will become more evident for you guys as we move through this, this lecture, there are few more examples where I will cover and it will be more evident for you, right? So, okay, so let's start with Python as a calculator. So this is very simple, Okay, how s1 s2 and s3 taken? Okay? Ragov, so the thing is, so this is just random. M. So this can be a cosine function, also the sine function. This can be exponential. It can be anything. So this is just randomly taken, like you can take any functions here. It's not like you have to take only sign you have to take only exponential functions, nothing like it. This is just for demonstration purposes. And the sine and exp, right? The S, I, N and exp, as you can see, it is highlighted in blue. That means that this is an inbuilt function within the numpy. Okay.

Speaker 1  45:39  
Right? So, okay, so the most rudimentary way to use Python is as a calculator. So let's say, Okay, I just do, let me just say five plus four. Okay, and just do shift, enter, I get nine. So that's a basic calculation, right? So that's what it says you do, 30 plus 15 you do. What should we do? Okay, let's do 40 divided by 12. You'll get so you can just use the cells and use it as a calculator. So that's all about this part, that you can use it as a calculator. So one thing that you'll notice that if you run multiple lines of calculations in a single line only the last ones displayed. So let me just demonstrate this part, so we know that 40 divided by 12 was 3.3 right? Let me just do let me do just five plus four. Okay, so ideally, we would expect the result of both, right? However, it's not, it's not displaying. So in that case, we just need to save print,

Speaker 1  46:54  
and then it would print both the results. So that's what this meant. This is what is class exercise part. Okay, so it just is just saying that you can use Python as a calculate. That's it, right. Okay. So now let's move on to a little more advanced, not advanced, but print statements, right? So, so why do we use a print statement? So using the print statement, it gives us more control over the appearance of the output. So what do I mean by this? Right? So, for example, imagine that this is not there. Okay, so this part is only not there, and you just have this as the output. Now you don't know what is this 3.33 you don't know what is this nine? Have I got it by adding five plus four? Have I got it by multiplying three by three? I have no information, right? So the more information we have, the better it is for us to understand. So what print statement does is that it will give us a way to I can put it this way that, you know, we can print text along with the output that we want to see. So, for example, if I can say that okay, or the product, or the addition of five plus four is nine, okay, so that would be a good, like, a good way to read. Okay, how did I arrive at this number? It is giving me some information as to how I've arrived there. So it so that's what I mean. So that is a basic use case of print. So there are other ways of using it, which I'll cover now, but yeah, so let's do class exercise six. Okay, so what I'll do is I'll copy, copy, paste, one, one line of code, and I'll explain you guys. Okay, so now see if you can observe your print. Okay, so print I can just do even let me show you print. Okay, 123456, 23456, or seven, nine into 36 Okay, so let me just print this. So this would give me a series of fours. Now, looking at this number, I'm not happy it's not formatted well. There are no commas anywhere. I don't know how to read the numbers. Is it 44? Million? 4 million, 4 billion? I don't know, because I have to literally concentrate on the screen and literally count with my finger so it gets really it's not really pleasing to the eye. So okay, fine. So that is that, and I don't even know how I've arrived at this number. So the first way what we can do is to make it look more, you know, better, like, okay, however, how have I arrived at this number, right? So for that, I have said the product of so it's a product, right? So the product of this number and this number is this, okay? So now please note this part. So the text that I want to print as it is on the screen will go in either double inverted commas or single inverted commas. So as you can see, it is there in double inverted commas here, right? So after the string is complete, you need to put a comma and then your either your calculation or your variable name. So now this variable name, I will cover, but here, for now, we are doing a calculation here, so let's just print this and see what is the output. So the product of this and the this number and this number is this, right? I hope this is clear,

Speaker 1  50:50  
fine, right? So let's go a little bit other and check something else. Now what we'll do is we'll have a set of variables, okay, assigned and let me explain you this. Okay, so the picker here is Intel Corporation. Okay, I'm sticker because it's a string. That's why I'm storing it in single inverted commas. Firm name, Intel Corporation, industry, semiconductors. So these are all, so these are all a list of variables, okay, tick off firm, name, industry, last dated price, date of price recorded. These are all variables, okay, to which I am assigning various values. Which can be, which can be, what you say, strings. They are strings also and they are float numbers. Again, there's a string, right? So that depends. So it depends on our use case, what variable we want to declare and assign, right? So, yeah, and then what we're doing is we are doing a calculation here of market cap. So market cap is basically so the the market the market cap is 105.95 into this number right now. Can you tell me? What is this number signify? Why are we doing this? What does that signify? 10 in 10 raised 10 to the power 910,

Unknown Speaker  52:26  
so this is just,

Unknown Speaker  52:32  
let me just copy this also,

Speaker 1  52:42  
right? So I have my outstanding shares, which is market cap. That is this value. So this is basically the market cap value 10 raised to the power nine. So basically you multiply this value by nine. So this is in billions. This means that it is one, zero, 5.9 5 billion, correct? So this is, this looks. This looks more neat, right? So, rather than me having 10595, and 0000, so on and so forth, instead of that, we have written it in this way so that it's easily understandable at one glance when you see right? So now we'll calculate the outstanding shares. Which is market cap divided by the price. So, which is this, this divided by the price, right? Okay, so now I've created the outstanding shares. Now I want to print a certain statement saying that the market capitalization of a particular company at the close of a certain date. Okay? Is so much so I want to print the market capitalization as on a certain date, right? So for that, let's see, how do we do it? So that is a combination of strings that we want to print as it is on the screen, as you can see here, and certain variable names which I mentioned when I was talking about this. So can you see the market capitalization the string that I want to print as it is? Okay? Then comma. Now I will give the variable name. Now, variable name is the form name. So what is this? So this form name will correspond to Intel Corporation here, right? And then comma, okay, at the close off. So this will be printed as it is. Then again, comma, date of price recorded. What is the date of price recorded? 22nd Feb, 2023 would be, would be heard, is in us, dollars. Okay, is us, in us. Dollar is us, dollars. And what is the market cap? So now let's just print this and see so you. Can see her the market capitalization of Intel Corporation at the close of 22nd Feb, 2023 is US dollar. This much, right, correct. So, so this is, these are so many zeros that I just mentioned right now. So this is so can you note the difference here that I have a combination of strings, variable name, string, variable name, so whenever I want something to print, to be printed as it is on the screen, that would be in single inverted commas, followed by either the variable name or some computation that I want to do, right? Fine. So okay, so that is one way. So now cover another way of doing the same functionality using something called as F strings. Okay, so, okay, so this was already copied here. Okay, so fine, so let's say that. So there, what is f string, okay. So first thing is that the moment we use formatted strings, it is preceded by F. You noted here, F, okay, so whatever you want to print, okay, so this way of using print is more convenient. We display the ticker as okay. Now here I want the name of the ticker. Okay, so that ticker is what INTC and the share price as US dollar, the last traded price, price. So now let me just explain you the difference. Okay, so this is a formatted string here. Please note the difference between this and this. Okay, here we are using a series of strings, comma, variable name, comma, again, open, close. You know, inverted commas, then comma, then variable name. So it's very irritating to do this, right? So instead of doing that, what we do is we use a formatted string where you say f, f means it will tell Python that it's a formatted string. Open the inverted commas, so you write the whole string. So it's like this way of using printers. Okay? This you leave, we display the ticker as so this would be so instead of saying a comma and the ticker, okay, here we are using curly braces to mention either the variable name or the computation right here this part and the share price as US dollars, the last traded price. So can you note that we are using only one set of open and close inverted commas, and within that, whenever we want to use the variable name, we are using curly braces here, right. Can you see? Can you appreciate the like beauty of the formatted strings here, like it's easy to use like rather than me, opening, closing, opening, closing. This is another way of doing. So there's just one more part that I want to cover in print that is a dot format. Okay, so I'll just explain this, and that should be done with a print Okay, so Shreyas is asked me, What does this don't this slash don't denote, right? So for example, that you have, like, two, three lines of print statement, okay, and you don't want to. You want to. So for example, your space is only this much, and you want to see all the print statement that you have written, right? So every time you want to go on to a new line, you just the next line. It's this means a continuation. So I'm writing this on the next line, however, but it is a continuation. So after as this should come, so that's what we are telling. It's just to denote continuity. However, since we are writing it on the next line, this basically denotes continuity. That's all.

Speaker 1  59:19  
Fine. So fine. So print. So now let's talk about dot format. Now I want to explain this part that zero s1, 1f and the format. So please note this part. Okay, this part and the dot format part here, right? So let me just open x then. Okay, so here I have written. So can you see a zero and a s? So we have two things here, zero colon s and one colon dot 1f right. That's what you have seen here. If I can just open it again. So in curly braces, it's zero colon s and. One colon, dot, 1f, okay. And I have a firm name and some computation here, right? So let's just focus on that part. So here zero, okay, so this is an index, okay, and this is also an index, so zero and one. Please note that the numbering in Python starts with zero, so it doesn't start with one, as we do. It starts with zero. So that's why anything you see will start with zero in Python. Okay, so this is type, okay, so let me say now this zero and this one, right? So let me show you here.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:51  
Okay, so this zero, you can see here maps to firm name.

Speaker 1  1:00:58  
This one here will map to outstanding shares. Can you see, since it's separated by a comma and there are two values, it says that zero will correspond to form name. So is populate form name here? Okay, and what is the type here? S stands for spring. Of course, form name is a string, so that's why it's an S, okay. Now outstanding share is, it's, of course, a float number for sure. However, this would result in a lot of decimal places after the decimal point, right? Too many digits. So what I'm telling Python is that point 1f means, please restrict the digits after the decimal point to only one digit, right? Is this clear? I just need a confirmation, because sometimes it's pretty confusing, so otherwise, then I can explain it again. Could you repeat? Okay, okay. So see, for example, here we are saying, so here we are saying ticker and last traded price in curly braces. So this is very, this is very simple, right? So what it means that okay, ticker means okay. I have to take my, I have to take the ticker variable here and populate here. I have to take the last credit price that is 25.47 and populate. This is very simple, right? However, what happens is you might want, you might have 45845, variables. Okay, and you want to do some computation on the fly like this, that outstanding shares. You want to represent it in millions or billions, okay? And you just want to do computations on the fly here, like this, or you want to say that, okay, restricted to only one decimal place for all these certain things, right? Along with this, you can do something called as you can do this. You can add a dot format function, okay, so that's what I'm trying to explain. So, yeah, so what it means is that, so here there should be a variable. Here there should be something that should be populated. So Dash has dash million outstanding shares. Okay, so now what happens is here, a variable name should come. Here, also variable name should come. But what should come is defined by this format function, right? So what is happening here is that, so format function has a certain variable names mentioned here, which is, one is firm name and the other is outstanding shares. However, please divide the outstanding shares by 10 to the power six. Okay. So these are the two variables. Now, where these variables will sit in this whole sentence, then we'll specify accordingly. So first place is this where zero or zero is mapped to the first. So you can say that the firm name index is zero, okay, and outstanding shares divided by this index is one. So this is this will give the mapping. So this zero and this one will give the mapping. This will tell us which variable should I pick from this format function, right then this second part after the colon, will specify what's what type I have to take. Is it a string or a float? So here, since form name is string, it will take string and outstanding shares is, of course, a float number. However, I do not want too many digits after the decimal point, so I'm restricting it to 0.1 Had this been 0.2 I would have two decimal places after the decimal block point. So, okay, let me just erase this.

Speaker 1  1:05:07  
Okay, so let's run this and see. So can you see now here that 4159, point 8 million outstanding Intel Corporation. This is the first string that it's taking, and then it is taking this float number. And can you see it has restricted to only one digit after the decimal point,

Speaker 1  1:05:35  
right? So we are not checking here. We are specifying that this is a string, and this is a float number.

Speaker 1  1:05:54  
So let's try. Somebody asked is, is as optional. So let's, let's try without it. And you can see that. So for this part, if I don't want this, right, I do not want this. So that's the reason why I can do a 0.1 f here, and then do it. So we are just specifying it's a string here. Okay, of course, I know for a fact that Intel Corporation is already defined as a string, okay, but this is the syntax, so that's why I've covered it. You can uppers, remove it, and it will still print right now, it's not always. I just showed you that you don't have to put the data type always, so you can see here. Okay, so let's move on, because we're wasting too much time on the print part. So you can just go through this. If there are any more doubts, you can write to us. But so this is what I wanted to cover. So the F strings. So F stands for F string. Somebody had asked me, so it stands for F strings, and you have to put the F in front of of the string that you're using for it to tell that effort for us to tell Python that it's a F string or a formatted string literals, right? So some points to note that Python is a dynamically typed language. That means that, you know, once I say x is equal to five, okay, that means that it, by default, will decide the type of X, okay, so the type of x would be in this case, can someone answer?

Speaker 1  1:07:40  
Why have we written that dot format function at the end of the code? So that is the so this see until and unless I do not write this. How will Python know what value to pick here? What is zero? I do not know what is zero, right? So that format function will give you the mapping algorithm, eight. Okay. Correct in, right. So the type is in So, however, if you guys have already worked with COC plus plus or Java, you have to specifically mention that this is in x is equal to five. However, in Python, this is not required, right? So if I do a 5.5 here, this would give me a flow. Okay, that is the meaning of a dynamically type language. In Python. This is an assignment operator, not, you know, equal to operator, as we use in maths. So you're assigning 5.5 to x. That's what it means right. Now, let's move to class exercise seven.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:45  
So, okay, so what it says that you can use,

Speaker 1  1:08:54  
you can use who and who s, okay, so let's, let's do this. Okay, percentage sign who? Let's see, what is the output? Can you tell me? What is all this? What are these things that you can see on the screen?

Speaker 1  1:09:16  
Variables, right? So variables are variables that we have already created till now in this notebook would be listed here, right? Is that clear? The functionality of this percentage? Who? Right?

Speaker 1  1:09:40  
Okay, so let's go with whos. Now what this does is it gives you okay, let me just remove this red line here. Yeah, okay, so who s will. Give you the variable name. What are the types and what is the data or the information which is stored in that so this, these functions are magic, magic, yeah, correct magic commands in the Jupiter notebook which are preceded by a percentage sign. So the this who will give you the list of the variables this, who s would give you the variable list with with detailed information about the data and the type, right? This is just for your information if, in case, you want to use it somewhere, right, right? So this is a home exercise, so you can go through it later, right? So let's move on to the native data structures. So after this, we'll take a break after the native data structures, right? So, so the native data structures that we will cover in the session are lists, pupils and dictionaries, sets. Is also there, but it's not used so widely, so that's why I'm not covering it. But of course, in the primer, it's there, and you can, of course, go through it and also read the documentation for the same so, so data structures, you can think of them like, you know, different ways of, you know, arranging your stuff so that you can find it and use it quickly, right? So just like you know, you use or you know, so one set of drawers for your clothes, shelves for books, boxes for toys, so you are arranging your things in certain certain boxes or drawers or shelves, etc, right? So even in, similarly in programming, also data structures help store information in the best way for the job. So depending on what is the use case, we will use different types of data structures to store that particular data, right? So in this in this case, we have lists, tuples and dictionaries, right? So you can think of an Excel spreadsheet is also a data structure, right? So Excel spreadsheet is a data structure to D which has rows, which has rows like these and columns, and you store your data here, right? So this is also one type of data structure, right? Fine. So, okay, so lists, right? So lists, as the name suggests, it's a collection of elements. So the elements can be heterogeneous. That means that I can have a mix of strings float in teacher values. So, as you can see here, this is, this is data about British Petroleum stock. Okay, so it's given the sector is given here, the price is given where it is listed. Okay, so some details, so you can store the information about maybe a particular ticker in this format, a mix of types of variables, right? Then, this is another list of exchanges, nse, NYSE, NASDAQ, LSE, Singapore, Hong Kong, right? These are the tickers certain tickers on different stock exchanges over the world. So Tencent in fee, Sainsbury, sink there. So these are all lists, okay, so just note, so lists are always initialized using square brackets. These square brackets, right? And each element is separated by a comma. Okay, that's how you initialize a list, right? So let's initialize these lists and print. Okay, so let's do the class exercise, create the five lists. Okay, so we'll create these lists. So list exchange is equal to so if it's a list, it's a square bracket. So I have square brackets. All my elements are separated by a comma. So let's run this. Okay, so now this is list mix, so which has two lists within it? So it is like list exchange and list because so it it is a collection of two lists. This list mix is a list of two lists, right? So let's run, let's see what is the output of list mix? Now, okay, what do you think would be the output of list mix? Now, would it contain only list exchanges, list stickers, or both?

Speaker 1  1:14:33  
Thing? That's correct. It's simple, right? Can you see this is one list. Okay, this is the one. Let me just scroll up. This is one list. This is second list. These two are enclosed in one another list. Sorry, here these the outer square brackets. Right? Fine. So, okay, so the same way list mix two. So you are just let's do this part. Okay, so tell me what would be the output of this list.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:14  
What would be the output of list mixed to

Speaker 1  1:15:25  
yeah, all three. Would it be all three? Would it give me an error?

Speaker 1  1:15:35  
Okay, I got an answer saying concatenated list. So let's see. Let me print.

Speaker 1  1:15:52  
Okay, so, yes, that's a concatenation of all the elements from all the three lists, right, fine, right? So that is lists. Now the similar way there is something called as tuples, that is also a collection of elements, elements that can be heterogeneous. However, the only difference between a tuple and a list is that once you declare or initialize a tuple, you cannot modify the elements in it, okay, so they are unchangeable or immutable, okay, so for a tuple, now, how do you initialize it? You use round brackets. Okay. Note this, this is round and for list, it's square brackets, right? So the same. There are some exchanges, some tickers, that same thing, but we have initialized it as a tuple. How do I know it's a tuple? Because of these round ranks, right? Then we have created a tuple for Britannia, Britannia and yeah. And then again, the same thing. So we are making a box which contains two boxes. So a tuple with two tuples inside and tuple makes two we are adding. So just let's run these, code line, code lines.

Speaker 1  1:17:21  
So let me print next right. So can you see tuple inside tuple, and let's print next two, right? So that's a concatenation.

Speaker 1  1:17:45  
Right? Yeah, for it. So if it's round bracket, we can't make changes, right? Yes, in the tuple, yes. Okay. So now what we will do is, let's do some operations on these data types, that is the list and the tuples that we just covered, right? So try adding it says classic, says 11. Try adding new elements to any of the lists and tuples, right? So what we'll do is take this okay, list exchanges. Dot append. So list exchanges was a list, right? It was a list because, because the terminology is only such that, or lets me do one thing for clarity, let me just print exchanges before performing this function, so that it's clear. Okay? So we have these. We have six here. Now, what we are telling Python is that please append, append something or something which is called Euro, next another list exchange to this list. So there should be seven exchanges and list exchange. See Okay, right. Can you see Euro next is appended at the end, right? So you can append, okay. So another way I can tell you guys is so since list exchange is already a list, okay, you do dot and you do tab, okay, I just put dot and I put a tab, it will give me all the functions which are related to the list, append, clear, copy, count, extend index. There are n number of functions related. So, yeah, so I mean, that's another way of using help from Python that what are the related functionalities for that particular variable. How does it know? Because list exchanges is a list here, right? Okay, so what we'll do is next. So we first appended. Now let's do another operation. So in this case, right? So once I use append, it will. Always append at the end of the list. However, there are certain use case where I would want to maybe append at a certain position within the list. Right in that case, there is a function called Insert. Okay, can you see insert? And in that you have to give two variables. One is first argument is the index position at which you want to insert and what you want to insert, what you want to insert. I hope that's clear. Okay, so now tell me, if I run this line of code that is list exchanges, dot insert zero, comma, t y o, the t y o would be inserted where before which ticker? Just tell me that part before which ticker would it be? Okay, yeah, just, I'm waiting for two, three more responses, so then I'll run this line of code. Okay, correct? So most of you got it right. That's correct. Can you see it is? It says 00, as I already mentioned, that indexing, or the numbering in Python, starts with zero, so this is zero. So what it says is, okay, now just shift this NSE to the right and in the zero position, just insert t, y, O, okay, I hope that's clear. Let's perform some more operations. Okay. You can check the length, okay, you can check lengths of the tuples or the

Speaker 1  1:21:42  
Oh, uh, let's let me only write length of list exchanges, right? So what do you think would be the length of list exchanges? Here

Speaker 1  1:22:02  
you have list exchanges in front of you. So, yeah, okay, okay, that's correct eight. Okay, so the same way you can check the length for let's go with this part length of tuple. So our tuple because was,

Speaker 1  1:22:34  
so there was six, so I've got the output as six, right? So that that's the length function. Okay, so we checked append to the list, insert to the list. Okay, let's now insert elements using indexes. Okay, so let me show you how to do that. Okay, so let me run this line of code, or let me just remove this. Otherwise, it's very confusing. Okay, so I have something called as list stickers, right? So let's go and do list because and let me print it. Okay, now, what would be the output of this list? Because zero. What would be the output of this? Of course, the answer is in the comment itself, but yeah, okay, correct. Okay. Now tell me what would be the output of, okay, this output of this one, okay, this one, okay, okay, fine, that's correct. It's ko so let me just explain this part. So when you're moving from left to right, okay, left to right. Indexing starts on numbering. Can I say starts with 012345, okay. However, if you're traversing, if you're traversing from the right to the left, okay, right to the left, then the indexing starts from minus one, minus two, minus three, minus four, minus five, minus okay. Somebody is asking me, Can I use round bracket? Okay, let's, let's do it and see okay. So I'll tell you, once you use a round bracket. It treats it as a function, okay? And that's not correct. So when you are indexing, when you are accessing elements, right? You always have to use a square bracket. But it that is the syntax. That's what that's how it is. That's how Python is. Okay? So. Okay, so that's the curse, slicing operation. Okay, let's check this part. Let's check the slicing operation. Slicing is basically accessing a certain chunk of the list. Okay, a few elements from between. We just take them off, and we'll see. So what I'll do is, first, I will print list BP for you guys, and then you can tell me what would be the output of it. So this is your list BP. Now tell me what would be the output of list. This line of code, list, BP, 123, so

Speaker 1  1:25:46  
Okay, oil gas and coal is only one string. It's it's one element, okay, oil gas and coal is one element itself. So this is one okay, this is the first element, second, third, fourth, fifth. So list, BP, one, colon, three, okay, okay, fine, so this will give me oil and gas and 290

Speaker 1  1:26:27  
right? So this is zero, okay, this is the zero at element. This is the first element. So first, okay, and the second element that is 290 it excludes the so it basically goes, it will include this and it will exclude this. So it will be like it will only go from one to two. That is how it is, right? So it is so 123, would give me all the elements from the first index that is one to the last index minus one. To make it very simple, I hope that's clear. So for example, if I make this four right, then it would be oil and gas, 290, LSE. So what does what does that mean? This is 0123, it will not include the four, four index, right? Yes, correct. Manjunath, that's correct. First index inclusive. Last number is exclusive. Correct, precisely.

Speaker 1  1:27:41  
Okay, so there is another way, or you can check if a certain ticker is existing. So let's say that I say PCs and list stickers, okay, and your list, because is basically this is the output. So that would give me true or a false, right? So what would the output of this be? TCS in listicles, correct, right? So that's another way of doing. Thanks, right. Okay, so now I would like to ask one question, where

Unknown Speaker  1:28:32  
this is the last operation that will do

Unknown Speaker  1:28:43  
I'm just picking a very

Speaker 1  1:28:52  
Okay, so now I want to run this line of code. What would be the output of this? I

Speaker 1  1:29:04  
Okay, guys are very attentive, very nice. That's correct. It will give me it will give me an error to cross verify. Let me also show you that dot tab would not give me an append function here I your article. Sorry, because so can you see there are no append functions here, right? So, yeah, so that's about less tuples and how we can use append insert for lists, how we can, how we can access the elements, how we can slice and how we cannot, how we cannot, what you say, change a tuple once it is defined, right? So, let's cover the last. First native part and native data type, and we'll take a break. Okay, so the one final data structure is dictionaries. So dictionaries in Python are used to store data as key value pairs, making it easy to look up values using a unique key. Okay, so it has, it has. So each item in a dictionary has a value pair. So each item has two, two elements to it. So okay, so to explain what I just said, so this is one, one item in the dictionary. This is the second item, okay, third and fourth. Okay, I mentioned something called as key value. So, oh, Himanshu, why no append into tuple? So when I when I introduce tuple, I told you that once you define a tuple, you cannot change it, you cannot add, you cannot delete, you can't do anything with it. It's just immutable. Okay, so this is the key. This is the key the first part of so the the element left to the colon is a is called a key, and the element to the right of the colon is called value. Okay, I hope that's clear. So the dictionary is created using key value pairs enclosed in curly braces. So that's how you define a dictionary. So just to give you some context, so for example, in trading, it is useful in the places where maybe you know you want to do a symbol to price mapping. So maybe you want to have a set of data at a particular time, time snap that for this particular symbol, this was the price, okay? Or for this particular symbol, this was the price for this particular order ID, which you executed. You you might want some order details that, what was the profit that I created? What was the exit price? So there are some mappings that you want to do again, certain things, right in trading also. So in that case, dictionaries are very useful, right? So again, I repeat. So dictionary is defined using key value pairs, which are separated by commas and the key value, the key and the value are separated by a colon, and the whole dictionary is initialized using curly braces. So let us just what we'll do is we'll do class exercise 12, where we will initialize the dictionary. Okay, let me initialize this dictionary. This is initialized. Now let's do the Okay, so just to understand whether you guys have understood what I just spoke what would be the output of this d and this part so

Speaker 1  1:33:20  
it. Okay, cool. Tesla, correct, right. So, so what is TSLA here? What is this? TSLA called?

Speaker 1  1:33:38  
Okay, key and Tesla is the value, correct. Okay, so now maybe I have a very big dictionary, which I cannot like see in one go on my screen. This is a very small dictionary. Maybe I want to just see what are the keys. Then I can just do the diction the dictionary name dot keys would give me all the keys in it, right? Similarly, similarly, print t, dot.

Speaker 1  1:34:18  
Similarly. Print D, dot values would give me all the values in the dictionary. Right, right. Fine. So, yeah, so that was about dictionaries. Okay, and this is a summary table, so you guys can just go through it, or when you're going through this notebook, I just summarized it so that it's easy. So just to just, just to go through what we just did, we did three native data structures, which is list, tuples and dictionaries. Lists are. Are initialized using square brackets. Tuples are initialized using round brackets. Dictionaries as you are initialized using curly braces. Lists, the elements can be heterogeneous, that is, it can be strings, float in anything. Same is the case with tuple it's just that tuples, once you initialize it, you cannot you cannot change it, so you cannot append, you can't delete, you can't do anything. Then we saw certain functions like append and insert. For lists, we saw how we can access elements from lists. So you can also access elements from tuples the same way as we did for lists. So you can try that out. And yeah, I think, yeah. So those were the native data structures. And so the usage and how we can use it will become more evident as you progress through the course. So this was, this is just an introduction, so if you're comfortable with this, I think you're good to go, right? So let's do one thing. We'll take a break now for 10 minutes. So let's continue. Let's resume at let me just open

Speaker 1  1:36:25  
so it's 536 so let's resume. Add 546 so.

Unknown Speaker  1:45:45  
Okay. I hope everybody's back. I

Speaker 1  1:46:09  
you. Okay, so I'll just do quick recap from the beginning for the Python notebook as to what are we covered in like one two minutes till the others also join in. So we went through a brief introduction of Python through the slides. Then what we did is we got familiar with the Jupiter Notebooks that they contain cells, different cells, and we also saw the different types of cells, that is the code and the markdown. Code is where you write your code. Markdown is where you write all the comments, and English like language for us also to understand what the code is about. Then we have two modes, that is the edit mode and the command mode, edit is where you can just click or double click on the cell, and you can edit it. Command is that when you just travels through the cells, just like I'm doing right then we went on to we did some class exercises. We saw a few print statements, how we can access help in Python using a question mark or the help function. Then we saw a sample program, just to see, you know, like within few lines of code you can perform like complex calculations, like generating numbers between zero to two with a spacing of 0.01 just with one line of code. And then we plotted some plots, sign plots, exponential decay plots, and all this was done in 20 lines of code. Right then we saw how we can use Python as a calculator. You just put in your calculation and just do Shift Enter, you'll get the output. Then comes the print function, where we saw how we could, you know, give more control, or rather, make the appearance of our output look more better. So, for example, you know, you want to print, so you have a live trading algo, which is running. And every time you take a trade, you want the code to print something, right? Okay, now, you know, taking a trade in so and so stock at this price and at this time, you know, so it has to print. So now, to write all this, we need to tell Python in a certain way. So that's what we did here, that how we could do it, so using either computations or variable names in between your right. So this was very cumbersome that we just saw, so that's the reason why we use something called as F strings or formatted string literals. So to do that, we have to prefix it with F and wherever is the variable name, or some computations that you have to enclose in curly braces, another way is dot format function that we saw where there is index based referencing to the variable names. Right then we went on to see some magic commands, who, W, H, O, S, to give the list of the variables and the information about it and the native data structures. That we saw is the list tuples and dictionaries, and what functions we can and cannot perform on list pupils and dictionaries, somebody is asking me, Can you please show the summary table? So this is the summary table. I have included set because that is another type of data, data structure, which is there in Python. So that is just for your reference. Questions and your knowledge. So you can take a look at it when you're going through this notebook, and you can, of course, like read about it also, but, yeah, I will not be covering it. Okay, so let's go to the non native data structures. So, so first is NumPy. So it's a short form for numerical Python. So it is a fundamental Python library which is typically used for numerical and scientific computing, right? So NumPy, in itself, has a, you can say, a data type, which it uses, which is called numpy array. So n dimensional array, and the nd stands for n dimensional array. So array is another data type which is which is inside number. You can say like that. So these arrays are somewhat similar to lists, but the only difference between this and the lists is that the elements in an array has to be homogeneous. That is, all the elements are of the same type, so it can't be a mix of, you know, like mix of data types inside, right? So there's a little bit about matplot matplotlib, and you are aware of it because of the responses that I received that it is, it is a charting library which is used to produce graphs and figures for visualization, basically, right? So what we'll do is, first, we'll see the functionality of NumPy and certain things that we can do with NumPy, right? So, yeah. So first now what we need to do is import NumPy as NP. Okay, so just for beginners, okay, I want to just clear this that you can of course say only import number. Okay. You can of course say this. But what happens is, just sorry. What happens is, okay, every time I have to reference the library, right? So, for example, say, here, okay, let it be even here, okay. So if I say NumPy dot, this is called a Dunder. So this concept of Dunder will be covered in dmp 02 lecture. So please do not worry about the terminology that I'm using. So this will basically give you the out the version of the numpy I am currently using on my system. So that is 1.25 okay. So now every time I have to use right or say, now what I do is shift or enter, okay, let's insert another variable for and say, I just run this line of code. Okay. Do you think this line of code will run with the knowledge you have? Just take a guess that I have imported NumPy, and this is some function from NumPy that I am using to generate something. Of course, I will explain what all this is. Do not worry about that. But do you think my ex will have some output? I'm just waiting for two, three more responses. Okay, no, right, right. I did not write NP, so this is going to throw me an error. So let's see what is, or I think this was already initialized. That's why it's not throwing me the error. Okay, so ideally it should, or somewhere I would have, I would have done it. So that's the reason why. Yes, that's correct. That's correct that it should actually throw me an error, but I have initialized it somewhere already in this notebook. Okay, so let's do one thing for fun. Let me just restart the kernel. I hope there's nothing else I have to answer. Let's see I

Speaker 1  1:54:14  
Okay, correct. So that's an error because NP is not there. However, what if, if I do NumPy, it will run now because, of course, that's what is the import function that I've given now, for the ease of programmers, right, every time I cannot set writing this NumPy, NumPy, NumPy, wherever I use. So that's the reason why we say NumPy as NP. So we are just declaring another alias to NumPy. So like, okay, so reference NumPy as NP, pandas as PD. So we are just giving a short form so that it's easy for us to use. So that's the only thing. So this n, pi, NP, could be anything. I can give even ABC, but of course, naming convention, this is what is followed. It's better to follow. Like, that's what is followed by the coders. Okay. So now. What is happening here? Let me explain. So, NP, dot, random, dot, normal. So from your stats primer and maybe your lecture, also the stats stats lecture, which you guys had, the optional one in that this is covered. So now, what is a normal distribution, right? So A, typically, a normal distribution is defined using a mean and a standard deviation, okay, so to define a normal distribution, we need these two parameters. So in this case, also what we are doing is NumPy has a functionality called random, okay, in this random I can create a normal distribution, uniform distribution, and there are n number of distributions. So this, you can check the documentation, and you will get n number of distributions. So for this class, we are going to use a normal, standard, normal distribution. Okay. Why standard? For standard? What? What is the what is the criteria is that your mean is zero, so loc stands for mean and standard deviation stands for scale in this case. So this is how Python defines its mean and standard deviation. So here the mean is LOC and the standard deviation is scale, okay, so and the size is I'm generating a sample of 10,000 points, right? So x will have 10,000 values generated from a normal, standard distribution, right? So let's run this code and let's see length of x, because if I print right, or there'll be too many numbers which will come so that's correct. So 10,000 as we thought, or as we expected, Okay, then let's do Okay, so that let's do X, maybe the first five elements, or fifth element, sorry, one. Let's do from one to let's do one to five. Let's see if we get just practice. Okay, can you see there is something called as array here? Why? Because we are using NumPy, right? So by default, you will get array as the output. This is not a list, so in list, right? You will have the same thing as the output, but there won't be any array written. There won't be anything mentioned. It would be only this much, right, right. Okay, so what we've done is now we have generated 10,000 data points from a standard normal distribution using a numpy function called NP, dot, random, dot, normal. Okay, okay. So maybe for clarity, let me do random.so can you see there are lot of Dirichlet generator gamma, like, there's so many. So depending on what we need, we'll just have to choose, okay. So these are like n number of functions,

Speaker 1  1:58:09  
right? So let's pause for a few seconds to admire the beauty. So what happens is, okay, we've created a set of 10,000 random numbers sampled from a standard normal distribution. Okay, so imagine doing the same on a spreadsheet. Okay, this gives also on a spreadsheet. Let me show you. Yeah, that's a one dimensional array. Money content, that's one dimensional array. So if here I do is equal to rank, okay, so if you see here, okay, when once I press ran right, it returns a random number greater than or equal to zero and less than one, evenly distributed. So this is what we were this is what we are trying to generate right, a number between zero and one. Okay, so let's say, let's say, if we do this, right? So this is a random number, okay, now to generate this, this is a random number, not standard normal distribution, just random number between zero and one, right? So now imagine, if I want to generate 10,000 such numbers, I have to drag all this till either 10,000 rows or copy paste in sets of 10. I don't know how many other times 10,000 divided by 10 times I'll have to copy. So the point I'm trying to make here is that with one line of code here, okay, we are, we are able to generate 10,000 value points. However, in Excel, it's not easy. So for example, if you wanted to do it, even for more data points, it can be more than 10,000 50,000 60,000 I just changed the number here, and I have a number Gen. I have my x populated with those many values. However, this is not this. This is. Not the case with Excel, right? So as I just mentioned, the np dot random routine has many different ways of creating arrays of random numbers. Okay, so a random dot, you can do anything uniform, and we saw so many things, right? So you can use that and create random numbers. I hope this is clear. So this is just one of the functionalities of NumPy. So this part, like the numpy functionalities, will be covered in PPQ 02, in detail, I'm just touching upon it. That's all okay. So now what we'll do is let's run this line of code and see what would be the arc.

Speaker 1  2:00:48  
Okay, can you tell me, why am I getting this error? So the thing that you can see in red, or can you tell me, why am I getting this error? Okay, so basically, I have not imported only, and yes, that alias is also not given. So let me import the library first. Okay, so as we have expected, we have 10,000 data points a mean of zero, mean of zero, because the data points are, are centered at zero, like, it's like, either way on on zero, and it will be with A standard deviation of one, here and there, right? So this is matplotlib. One thing I would want to specify is matplotlib inline. So can one tell me? Is anyone aware? Why do we write this? Matplotlib inline? Any idea?

Unknown Speaker  2:02:10  
Linear deal, okay, just waiting for few more seconds. I

Speaker 1  2:02:24  
to keep the plot in the notebook correct. That's correct plot inside Jupiter notebook. So basically this means that instead of it's a special magic command that tells Python to display all the matplotlib plots directly inside the notebook. Okay, so just below the code. So that is just, I mean, this is optional, but generally people write this line of code in case people think, yeah, so no pop up plots or something, so it will be in line with the notebook. Okay, so you can try it without using it, and see what is your output. Okay. Okay, so this was np dot random. So create a sequence of 10,000 numbers drawn from a standard normal distribution. So let's just go over it again. That for that, we need np dot random. Dot normal loc stands for the mean of this normal distribution. So that is zero. Scale stands for the standard deviation. That is one size, 10,000 how many data points I want? So that is 10,000 right? So and check its length, okay. So check its length, okay. Let me just copy paste length. I just did that length of x, that is 10,000 right? Then check its type. So can you tell me? Okay, raga, what is LOC and scale? I just mentioned that for any standard for any normal distribution, for that matter, you need to specify to two parameters. One is a mean and a standard deviation, right? So loc. So the mean in Python is specified using loc. So LOC is equivalent to mean, scale is equivalent to standard deviation. As you know, for a standard normal distribution, the mean is zero, standard deviation as well. So that is what it means, right. Okay, so, okay, so, x. So, let me, let me, let me say X. Okay, so I want to x is my variable. Now I want to check the type of this, so what would be the code line that I would write here? Okay,

Speaker 1  2:04:48  
Narayan Sujit, if the plot does not look 3d it is two dimensional. Only two dimensional. This is because the data points are so much like so many data points, 10,000 cramped up in. In such a small space, that's why it looks close to each other, but it's not a 3d block. Okay, type X, that's correct. So let's see, what is the type of x? What do you think would be the type of X? Please note x is 10,000 numbers generated from a normal distribution array. Okay, that's correct array. Okay, plot the sequence. We just plotted the sequence. I hope this is clear, right? Okay, so now let's see the major advantage, and which is very key to even font domain for back testing, the reason why numpy array is preferred over python list. Okay, so let's say that we have these two can you tell me what is the data type of list? I'm so sorry. What is the data type of these? Two heights and weights? What is the data type of this? Okay, waiting for two, three more responses. Okay, list. Fine. That's correct. That's list. Now I want to check their length. So what would be the function that I would use? Oh akanks Sinha has said array of floats for heights and weights. So it's wrong. Why? Because first thing, whenever you have to declare an array. You have to do NP, dot array, and then you need to write the elements. First, okay. Second, I mentioned that it's square brackets only that I'm using and giving elements. Then it's a list. That's it. For an array, you have to specify np dot array, and then you have to write your elements. Okay, okay, yeah, length, length is correct. So length heights and so that would give me five. Okay, done. Then check the type. So type would be, what do you think would be the type? Would it be float, or would it be list? Okay, that's list Correct. Okay, so let's see a next one. What is the maximum height? So any guesses for what would be the inbuilt function to calculate the maximum? Okay? Max height. Heights, sorry, heights. Okay, so that would what would that give me the maximum value from this list, right? Okay, then, okay, I want to calculate the mean weight. So tell me. How would you do that mean weight, any invalid function that you would use, or what is the inverted function that you would use?

Speaker 1  2:08:20  
Okay, let me just put the few answers that I've received to just see why it is correct for incorrect. Okay, so it says list has no attribute average. Okay, so I have another answer here, which says average weights. Let's see This is also incorrect. Now, NP, dot mean Okay, so the mean function is a part of NP, like NumPy. So that's why np dot mean you call that function from the numpy library and then put in for what you need, the average of right? So it's not, it's not like readily available, like type and Max or length, so mean is a part of NB or numpy array. So that's the reason why we have to do NP. Dot means, okay, median. Any guesses for median? Do

Speaker 1  2:09:45  
what is the median height? How would you calculate that?

Unknown Speaker  2:10:02  
Yeah, okay, NP, dot, median, right.

Speaker 1  2:10:29  
So Heath is asking, do we have to use NP for all math functions? So, mostly Yes. Now, so for me, median mode or anything, yes, you have to use it, NumPy, whatever. So see, NumPy has its own documentation. So there, everything will be mentioned that which functions does it support? So mostly for yes, all mathematical operations, for matrices. NumPy support is there? Okay? Fine. So let's come to the the trading bit of it, like how we can use Python to generate trading signals. Okay, a very simple way of doing things. Okay, so let's first generate data. So of course, now to for us to generate signals, we need some trade data. So based on some, so based on some, some criteria, we generate signals, right? So either it's a moving crossover average, or it opens at certain price, and then I'll buy. We need some, some rules, okay. So now, first, what we'll do is we will create data for volume. Okay, so volume traded data. We will generate it randomly using the function that we just saw. That is random function. Okay, so here, this part is clear ideas, right? So this is simple, NP, dot random, dot, normal. Can you tell me what does loc so what is the mean and the standard deviation in this case? So please type mean comma standard deviation. Mean comma, standard deviation. So for this particular normal distribution, what is my mean and standard deviations? Okay, 250, and 50. That's correct. Okay, fine. And how many data points would this volume traded variable have? So once I run this line of code, please exclude NP, dot round. I will explain what that means. But if the thing the code line highlighted in blue, if I run this, how many data points would I have? 100? That's correct. So what does this mean? Is that generate a normal distribution with 100. Sorry, generate 100 data points from a random normal distribution having mean 250, and standard deviation, 50. Okay, fine. Now what happens is to make things clear. What we'll do is, I'll just run this and show you guys.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:21  
Oh, sorry, it won't happen. Okay, let me just print one to five.

Speaker 1  2:13:29  
Okay, so can you see, oh, there are a lot of decimal points. And yeah, like, I don't want these many decimal points. So now I have to tell Python that I want it only, maybe till two decimal places, right? So then there is a function again in NumPy which says round so round it off to two decimal places. So it means that every time you generate one number, round it off to two decimal places, right? So that is the meaning of this whole code line. So let's run this. And,

Speaker 1  2:14:11  
okay, let's run that's done now. Okay, so now let's go to now creating trading signals. Now my condition is that display the days when the trading volumes were below 200 Okay, so what? So there's a function again in NumPy, which says, Whenever, wherever the volume traded is less than 150 okay. It will give you the index, index number of that array. So what does this 17 and 95 signify that wherever my volume was less than 150 all those indices it will highlight. So let's see so.

Speaker 1  2:15:04  
Ah, just

Unknown Speaker  2:15:20  
a second. So NP, dot where

Unknown Speaker  2:15:30  
I took the wrong variable. Sorry, volume created 17. Still it's giving me something else, okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:15:49  
just a second. Okay, now again, it changed. This is 49 this Okay,

Speaker 1  2:16:09  
so can you see now that we have generated the volume traded. Okay. Now, what does this np dot, where. Np dot, where, will give you the index location of wherever the volume traded was less than 150 so the once I ran this, every time I run this, volume traded will have different different values, right? So for this, for this iteration, at 49th and 50 to a 52nd index values, the volume traded was less than 150 so that's the reason why I got 49 and 52 to cross verify, I just checked what was the value at index 49 from this volume created, and it is 116, which is less than one. I hope this is clear, right? So the same way I want to say, for some, for some condition, that my NP the volume. So give me the index locations of wherever the end volume traded was more than 350 so there are four index locations where it was more than 350 now, so displaying values when at least one of the conditions are met. Okay? So if we do this, so this is basically concatenating these two conditions. However, what I'm saying here is what I'm saying here is that I want either so either of the conditions to be true. That is when volume credit is less than 150 or the volume traded is more than 350 so this is or, or means either, if either of the conditions are true, then it's a true like, I have to print the value. So as Benjamin just asked me, can't you print the value straight away? Yes, you can by doing this. So here, in this case, it this will just give me an index value. However, if I use volume traded and these square brackets, then it will give me the values corresponding to the indices where this conditions are true. I hope that's clear. So either of the condition should be true, right? So in this in this case, this condition was true, true because the volume traded was more than 350 which is three 50.44 it got populated. In this case, it was less than 150 so 116 in this case, 99.6 because this was this, this was this was true. Then in this case, this was true. That's why this got populated. I hope that's clear. So let's try. So there are no there are no there are no values or index values where this is true. That's why we are getting a empty array here. Yeah, Raghav, yes, the location is skipped in this step. So if you want only the location, then you just remove this volume traded, and just do NP, dot there, and just do an or here, and you just print it. This will give you the array locations, right? If you do volume traded here, and then just put a square brackets again here, that will give you the values simple so see, either way is right, even if you want to access how to get dates when volume is less than 150 or less than 150 or 350 that's correct, right? This is what so, so Shreyas, what you're asking is a part of pandas data frame. So here we do. Have date dates as such, given right in this we just created volume traded. So I'll just touch upon it in some time when we're doing panels. So the same as the case in signal generation. So what we're doing is we'll use this np dot where volume traded is more than 325, if this is true, then populate this column with short otherwise, zero. Madhu Sudan, why first number is three 50.44 because it is more than 350 right? So this condition is getting satisfied, correct? Fine, so let me just continue. So, so what we're doing is, so this, we got only index values, so let's create a signal column. So that's what we need, right? So whenever certain condition is satisfied, we want a long or a short signal correct? So what we do is, that's what this let me copy this code

Speaker 1  2:21:09  
and let me run signals. What do you think would be the output? What would be the values in signals? What would they look like in signals? So

Speaker 1  2:21:28  
what do you think would be the values like? So what are the values in the sense? Would it be zeros, ones? What would the values look like? Not the time.

Speaker 1  2:21:48  
A short or long. Okay, so it's either zero, short or long, right, correct. So what this means is that NP, dot, where, okay, when volume traded is more than 325, so this will give me an index, right that we just saw this part will give me an index. What it's saying is that at that particular index in the signals column, please populate it as short, if it is true, otherwise, make it zero. Now again, you take signals only, and you give the other condition, which is when volume traded is less than 175 whichever position in the signals column. Okay, whichever index satisfies this corresponding to that index value in signals. Please populate it long. Otherwise, just populate whatever was there in signals. That's what we are saying here. Yeah, shorter cell. So that's the reason why we have 00, short, long. So what you can do for fun, right? When you go through this, right? You can just just print and see the specifics. So for example, this would be for volume traded. Okay, so volume traded of minus two, minus two would have a value greater than 325, for sure. So you'll have to just check that. Okay. So rather, this is another way of using conditions like if statement, NP, dot, where is also like if only. So if, if, if I say right, it's synonymous. I can say so. It says that whenever a condition is true, if this condition is true, then do this. Otherwise, do this. This is just in one line. That's all. So if we'll have like, three, four lines, right? So why not long one? Why would it be one share? So see, long is basically when you want to go long, it's one when you want to go short, it's either minus one and otherwise just populate it with zero. So that's just a convention that we are giving you are free to do whatever you want, but you should understand what you are coding. So for example, I want to sell when my volume credit is more than 325, and I want to buy when it is less than 175, otherwise, just populate everything else as zero. There is no signal there. That is. What is the explanation? Money content, can we give both the conditions in single line? Yes, you can. You can try it out. So let me just continue, or I had to touch upon it, so you guys can go through it and try this class exercise. Also, it is similar with some different numbers, okay, so you have to use a nested NP, dot, where, money content, so you can try that out. Okay, so let me just cover pandas now. So, yeah, so. So just a minute. Yeah, so pandas is a is a very important library that we will be using a lot in this course, right? So it is very, very popular in the data science and the quant finance community, right? So it is typically used for data manipulation and data cleaning, whatever, everything, whatever we want to do with the data. You upload the data from CSV files or you, or whatever data you have in your data frames from Python, you can read it back into CSV or Excel files. Okay and do data manipulation. So I will show you a very basic read CSV reading or CSV files and how to modify it, okay, or rather, give instructions as to create it in a way which is useful for us, for our trading, right? So you can read this, there are two, mainly two types of data structures in pandas, one is series and one is data frame. So you can think of series as 1d so something similar to lists. I can say, okay, so it's like one one dimensional data. But however, the way it is initialized is a bit different, and the pandas data frame is basically consists of rows and columns, just like an Excel sheet. So you can think of a pandas data frame like this with columns and these rows, which we will see now, but yeah. So okay. So now what I'm going to do is I have a CSV file on the computer. So it is your this CSV file, PBQ, underscore, 01, data, tcs.ns, dot CSV. So CSV stands for comma separated values. So that is a so that is also a file which consists of all the data, which is in like plain text, but each value is separated by a comma, so you can just open the CSV file at your end later on and see how the values are populated there. Okay, in a CSV file, you can just open this one only. You can download this file, which would be on your LMS, and just check how it looks. Okay. So now we have a function in pandas, okay, so, so, of course, first you need to import pandas as PD, okay, and then we have a function in pandas. That is, PD stands for pandas, read CSV. So that means read the CSV file. Right with CSV file? Should I read? This is the CSV file. So this should be the name of the CSV file. Right index call is equal to date. Means which, which column should I make it as make as index. So here I'm specifying that my date column in the CSV file should be made the index of this data frame. So index is the first column in a pandas data frame. So for example, if I have this, I read it. So this will be date. This will be open a typical price data, high, low, close volume. Okay, so this, so this would be your index, and this would be your first column of the data frame. Okay, so that will be evident. Now let's read this first. And pass dates is equal to true means that if you see any date like columns, okay, any date like columns in the CSV file, parse them into days, basically convert them into Date, Time type. Okay. So let me run this code, and we will see first. So this is the DF that I ran. Now, let me run DF. Now, can you see date is your index, high, low, open, close, volume adjusted, close. Okay. Okay. How does the function access the current directory of the file? Where do we keep the file? Okay, that's a very valid question. Anil, so the thing is, for for this, okay, for this class, because my this CSV file is right in the same directory as my code, I can just write the name of this, however, okay, if that is not there, then you will have to specify the whole file, okay? Or just copy, paste your file here and just write the file name. You can do either of the things. Okay, so this is your data frame, right? So now we, what we'll do is we will check how many rows and columns exist. Okay, so we can do something called, there are these functions. I will just tell you the F dot shape.

Speaker 1  2:30:03  
On. Sorry, yeah. So DF dot shape, so this would give me the number of rows and number of columns. So, as you can see, Jesse, no, you don't have to import date time to pass dates. It's not required. So, yeah, so DF dot shape. So it has 2460, rows. And how many columns can you see? The column count starts from high. So, 123456, date is not considered a column, because it's an index. That is how it is. Okay? So, so now check its type, display the first 10 rows. So do you have any idea? How do I display the first 10 rows for a data frame? What is the function that we use? I

Speaker 1  2:31:04  
Okay, yeah, DF, dot, head, that's correct. DF, dot 10. So that will print the first 10 rows of the data frame. Similarly, if I want to print the last 10, it should be DF, dot, T, okay, okay, so show the minimum, maximum, average, descriptive statistics. So there is a function called DF dot describe, okay, so if you do that, DF dot describe, so it will give you the statistics for this table. That is, what is the count for each column. What is the mean? What is the sanity, sanitation minimum? So it will give full descriptive statistics of that particular column. Okay, these are just some useful functions, okay. So this plotting you guys can try on your own. Plot the adjusted close as a time series. Plot The close and adjust. This is already there, uploaded on the LMS, so not cover it now, because I want to cover the four loops. So yeah, that's about pandas. So first, let's go to loops and conditional statements. So first, let me explain how the loops work. Say you have, you know, some numbers, okay,

Speaker 1  2:32:35  
right now here in Excel, what you do is eight, okay, this is more than this, this columns value is more than this, then maybe print one, otherwise, print zero. Let's go with this, right? So, okay, so whenever the first column value is more than the second column value, one, otherwise, zero. Okay, so this is my function, right? This is my if statement. So what is happening is for me to apply this if function for all these rows, I just drag Correct. I just drag. So now, for example, I had again, 10,000 rows like this. I have to sit and drag till all those 10,000 rows now another so that's that's pretty cumbersome again. So now for me to do this in an easier way. In Python, we have something called as follows. So that means that please apply this function again and again and again on the whole data set. So for example, if there were 10,000 rows here, please apply this condition for all these rows, and please generate this column. So it's a repetitive task, right? So that's where you use for loop, loops, basically. So the intuition is clear, right of loops. So now let's do this function. Let's see how we can code this in Python. Okay, so, yeah, so Vedanta, okay, so first, let me first explain.

Speaker 1  2:34:19  
Okay, let's say, let's take a very simple example for i in range 10. Okay, so let's say, for i in range 10. Print, I into two. So okay, so now, based on what I just explained, what do you think would be the output of this, like from, from the look of this code, these two code lines, what do you think would be the output of this? So range will give you a range of numbers. Okay. So starting from zero, excluding 10.

Speaker 1  2:35:14  
Yes, okay, so each number, so if I say range 10, right? So it will give me numbers from zero to 10, exclusive of

Speaker 1  2:35:34  
so can you see so range basically has zero to nine, okay, so excludes 10, right? So that's the reason why these 012345678, is multiplied by two. So every iteration, what happens is that every time, yes, Nihal, pandas and NumPy, will be covered in PBQ, 02, so don't worry, I'm just touching upon it now it will be covered. So for i in range 10, right? So, yeah, so every iteration, so I is the iterator, so it will keep a count as to how many times it has to go through. So for i in range 10, so it has to go from 1-234-567-8910, so it has to go 10 times. It has to repeat this operation 10 times this operation has to be repeated. On what it has to be repeated? What is this i i is in this range. What is this range? Zero to nine. So for 00, into two for one, one into two for two, two into two. I hope you're understanding, right? So that is repetition. That's how a for loop works, right? So that's what I had shown here. Also, this is a, this is a different example, but the same condition, you have to keep repeating again and again and again. In that case, you use a for loop. So this is a very simple for loop demonstrating, you know, multiplication of maybe zero to nine by two. So in two lines of code, I could perform this operation right now, let's, let's cover this in with respect to trading. Okay, so what we'll do is we'll create this Vedanta close prices. Okay, so Vedanta close prices, let me run this line of code. So this would, of course, give me again. What do you think Rand int stands for

Speaker 1  2:37:42  
Rand int. Okay, random in teachers, correct. So let's do a check on let's just print a few numbers from Vedanta close prices so they are all integers. See, it's they are random integers between 65 to 85 so it's like it's printing only in features between 65 and 85 with a size of 100. So Vedanta close prices would be having a length of 100. So there are 100 integers between 65 to 85 right. Okay, so now I have generated the closing prices of Vedanta. Okay, next, next. What I'm doing is you put a threshold sell price. Okay, you keep a of course, you need some rules, right? Like, if it goes above this or below this, I'll do something buy or sell. So let's keep the threshold price here

Unknown Speaker  2:38:44  
as 83 okay, right then, let me copy this for you now.

Speaker 1  2:39:02  
Okay, so now what is happening here? Here we had only one, one element here for i and then in range. So we had only one iterator. However, there are certain cases even in trading that you will need to like. So you need the price also, and maybe even the day when that price you know had like when that price was reached, for example. That's an example that I'm giving. So if you need both the values, in that case, you will have to use something called as enumerate. Okay, so what is enumerate? So when you look through that list, right, you will get only these values. These are all values. Right? What you're getting? 2346, these are values which are multiplied. However, if you also want the position, that is the index at which it has happened, so which day, for example, in our case, in that case, if we are having two iterators, that is I, comma, something or I. Comma j, i, comma, K. It can be anything. In that case, if we are specifying two iterators or then we use enumerate. Okay, so that is the reason why we are using enumerate here. That's what I wanted to highlight. So what we're doing is for i, comma close price in what is this? It will iterate through these 100 values that we just created here, Vedanta close prices, right? So for i and close price in Vedanta close prices. So what is the condition now? So it's it's similar to this, that there is some condition, and I have to go, how many times 100 I have to go over 100 values? It's like there is some condition. However, you have to apply that condition for 100 such values rows, right? So that's what we are doing here. So what is the condition if my close price? So that is whenever vedanta's close price is more than threshold price. What is a threshold price? 83 Okay, whenever it is high, then what you do is Day Zero, close at one, sell at open two, dot format. So we just covered this. So tell me what would get populated, which value from format would get populated at zero. So this zero will take some variable value. So what which variable would which variable value would it take? I? One would take close price. Two would take i plus one, correct. So what is happening here is, every time I iterate through for I close price in this, right? So, so for example, whenever this condition is through, close price more than threshold, this is a counter. So, for example, say, let me show you here. So for the first condition, right? My condition, for example, I'm counting zeros for example, right? So my condition is false here, so I will not record this index. Then this is my next index. So say day, so day, this is next, and starts with zero, so one, so here it is true. So day two, this is true, okay, and the close price, for example, on that day was five. So it is day two. Close price, five, next day, sell on the next day. So sell on i plus one, which is three, is this clear? What I'm trying to say? So here, what is happening is every so I is a counter, so it will count. So it will count, 0123456, it will so on and so forth. Close. Price is close. Price is actually the value of this Vedanta, so the first, so the in the first iteration. So, for example, if Vedanta was 7030, 460-787-5688,

Speaker 1  2:43:16  
okay, so we are saying, when the close price is more than 85 so this is false, this is false, this is false, this is true. This is true. This is false. This is correct. This is when it is when it is true, and this print statement will execute only if condition is true. So when all the conditions were true, only three days. When was it true? The day 12. How did I get this 12 from this counter i i is what? Simply, every time I execute a for loop, it will go from 012340, four.

Unknown Speaker  2:44:04  
So I will go 0123456, this is the counter. This is my close ties, okay, this is my

Speaker 1  2:44:18  
when is it true, and whenever it is true, I will have my print statement. Is this clear what I'm trying to explain here so

Speaker 1  2:44:44  
it, yeah. Yeah so I is. The counter close price will have the close prices from this and what it's keeping a count of the which day that close price is more than the threshold. That is what we are trying to do. So it will execute a trade, if you will code it accordingly. So this is just that we've created a rule and code, it will execute a trade if we tell the code to do it.

Speaker 1  2:45:34  
Okay, okay, so that was about one threshold. So what if I have another threshold where the close price is less than 67 The first one was, see, if you see this part, was the sell condition. This was the buy condition. This is a buy condition when the close price is less than threshold by price which is 67 so in this case, it was 83 if the close price is more than 83 then you will sell. If it is less than 67 you will buy. Please note that these numbers are arbitrary. It's the it is. It has no significance with respect to trading. This is only for demonstration purposes. Okay, so Vishnu is asking, What if we write for i in close price? Okay, let's try it and see. That's when you guys will also understand. So for you're saying for i in close price, right? This is what you're saying. Enumerate will not come, okay? In Vedanta, close prices. Okay, first for it will give me an error here, because close price will not be tracked. But let me show you, it's not even

Speaker 1  2:47:02  
so as you can see, it's not giving me an error, but I have no output. Why? Because there is no close price here. First thing. And anyways, even if you want right, you can generally also just print it. If you just want to print right, green.

Speaker 1  2:47:40  
So there are three cells. So this is how you can write. Now, did you mean this, or are you? Are you meaning? Are you meaning to ask that if I just eliminate only close price here, this will not get executed. Why? I'll tell you, because if I remove this, I is not used anywhere in this. Okay, I'm not using it to even, what do you say to compare? So either I use a i here so that I would be iterating through Vedanta close prices now, and not close price, right? In this case, what is happening is, I is the counter and close price is having the actual close prices of Vedanta correct. Now, what you are saying is that if I remove this close price, okay, okay, you will remove this whole thing, okay, and you will just have for i, okay, so for i In Vedanta, you are saying in close prices, right? Then what you need to use is I only you will have to use I now I will have Vedanta prices in it. Are you understanding what I'm trying to say? So in this case, if it's only one, one variable that we are using, it will use the values from this list or range, or whatever we give here. So in this case, I gave a range here. In this case, I gave Vedanta close prices so it will traverse to those elements, use those values and then compare it with the threshold and print in this case. In this case, it's multiplying those values with two. Right now, this is one case. I'm talking about a specific use case, that when you're trading, you need a lot of information when you have a life or algo which is running right, whenever there is a trade which is happening, or on which day, at what price, or on which day and which day and what price correct, that is very important. So in that case, you want to iterate and you want to track two variables. Okay, in that case, this enumerate is useful. So that's just an introduction for you guys that you can use. You can use for loop with enumerate. Also, that's what I was trying to demonstrate. So for. Is a is a loop, like for repetitive tasks and if is conditional statements. Somebody had also asked that, how is np dot where similar to if? Now that you have seen if an NP dot where they are, they are like checking for conditions and populating accordingly, right? So it is synonymous. It's just that np dot where just is in one line, if will have like few lines, if else, if else. So as you can see, her also, right? We have combined both the buy and sell signals into one line of code here. So for I close price in enumerate Vedanta close prices, if, whenever the close price is more than the threshold, I will sell. If it is less, then buy, else continue. So, so this is like to understand for an if, individually. So this is for one condition, which is sell. This is for buy. Okay, now you have understood how to code it so you can use an Else, if, and just put everything all together in this code block, this part and, yeah, so this exercise is basically the same. What I just copy pasted everything is here the code I've explained, also the code. If you have any questions, you can please ask me. I think that's all for the session. So we'll just first, just what you said go through again, or what all we did in the second half so that, yeah, so we started from here. So we saw what is NumPy. So NumPy is for computations, and numeric numerical computations, basically, and it has a very popular data type which is called array, and yeah, it has arrays. And we saw that arrays are homogeneous, so basically you cannot have heterogeneous elements in the arrays, right? Then we saw matplotlib, and you guys know that it is used for plotting. Then we also saw a special like a specific function to NumPy, which is random, dot normal. So you can basically generate 10,000 whatever size numbers you want, like 10,000 20,000 numbers with particular parameters which are necessary to define a normal distribution, so that is the mean and the standard deviation, mean being LOC and standard deviation being scale, right? Then we plotted. We saw how to use matplotlib. Then,

Speaker 1  2:53:00  
okay, yes, I forgot to cover one very important point. I want to, want to do this.

Speaker 1  2:53:17  
Okay, so I have heights, okay, which is a list, okay, so now tell me that I want to basically multiply the heights by two. Okay, each values by two, right? So what would be the output of this heights into two?

Speaker 1  2:53:41  
Shubham in this EPACT course, are we going to use the oops concept or to implement full fledged application, or use raw coding method? Are we going to cover architecture for application? So Shubham, so there is a dedicated session for object oriented programming introduction, which is dmp 02 course that there are another two three lectures which will cover in detail object oriented programming implementation. So there is vectorized back testing and event driven back testing that you will cover using oop. So that should help you. So LP, yeah. So coming back to my question, heights into two. So what would be the output of this? I'm waiting for another two, three responses, and then we'll run this code. Please note, Heights is a list, so, yeah, okay. Everybody, like most of you, are saying that height elements are multiplied by two, let's see what is the answer? So is it the same? No. So what happens is, in list, we cannot do these multiplication. Vision operations here, what it has done is it has just duplicated the list and concatenated it. Right as you can see here, is just again, repeated the list again. So now for me to perform this operation, what I need to do is we have to use Aries, right for these, for for these things, for such operations, we have to use arrays. So what I'm doing is I'm converting my heights list, okay, into an array. So np dot array heights would generate or NP heights, okay, so my NP heights, let me put it. Can you see it's type array. Now, let me do into two. Now, this would give me the desired result into two, right? This is the important part that I wanted to cover, and I missed it. So the operations are mathematical operations and multiplication, each multiplication of each element doesn't happen in lists. Doesn't happen in this you have to convert them into arrays and then perform your mathematical computations. Okay, then, yeah. Then we went on to see how to how do we use NP, dot where. So we created a volume traded variable, and we created again, we created 100 data points from a random normal distribution, and then we just got the index values, because np dot where output is index. So wherever this condition is true, it will give that index value, right? That's what we saw. And if we want the value corresponding to that particular index, you will have to just do volume traded and in square brackets, the code, NP, dot where, then trading signal generation we saw. So we created a new list called signals, and in that we have given the condition that np dot, where the condition short, zero long, otherwise you populate. So basically signals is going to have zero short or long values, right? Then we saw pandas. So pandas, as I mentioned again, very important for data science and data manipulation, for loading our data and manipulating it. So you can, of course, read the official documentation also here, or there is 10 minutes to pandas, also these links you can refer to if you want more information. So there are two types, mainly two types of data, data structures used in pandas, which is series and data frame. So we will mostly be, very heavily, be using data frame. So data frame is 2d So it consists of rows and columns. We saw, how do we read a CSV file? So using PD, dot read CSV, we can link the files. There are a number of function, number of attributes that you can use to understand the properties of the data frame that is using shape, head, tail, info, description, right, and the plotting part I did not do. So you guys can just take a look at this code. If you have any queries, you can, of course, write to us. We are more than happy to help. Yeah, we went through pandas, and then we did loops and conditional statements, that is for and if and if we need, we need to keep a track of two variables. Then we use enumerate and yeah, I think that's it. There are a few home exercises also here, so you can, like, try to attempt it, and that would give you a better understanding of the topics. So, yes, so that's all from me. So it's 659 so if you guys have any questions, I'm here for another five minutes. I hope this session was helpful for you guys. And of course, if there are any other queries, you can write your support manager and we will help you out. And of course, you guys will have a tutorial session also on BBQ, 01, so if you have any in detail doubts that you want to discuss, you can attend a tutorial Session also.

Speaker 1  2:59:38  
Okay, so, so Benjamin is asking me a question. Let me go to that section. Okay, you said signals, oh, God, where is it? Just a minute.

Unknown Speaker  3:00:02  
It's below right? No, it's on the top one minute.

Speaker 1  3:00:14  
Yeah, here, right. Yeah.

Speaker 1  3:00:30  
Okay, just a minute. Let me Just check the Pension. I so

Speaker 1  3:01:23  
see. So Benjamin has asked me a question that where we worked with printing long, zero short. Can you please show how to code account function? So he wants to basically know that how many values are long, how many values are how many long, how many short, and how many zeros I have. So, so in this case, in case of an array or we cannot use value counts, that is for a different data type. So here is the code for that. So where it is unique values, comma count, values is equal to NP, dot, unique. Unique is a function, okay? And in that, what? What are we counting? Signals. Return counts is equal to true. So we have to return the counts of the signals which are unique, unique in the sense zero, long and short. And this is just a way to represent or like the values. So unique values count, values transpose. Dot least stands for transpose. So there are 88 zeros, four longs and eight shots. Okay, so Madhu Sudan is asking me to repeat dot format. Okay, let me go to dot format. So,

Unknown Speaker  3:02:45  
okay, fine.

Speaker 1  3:03:02  
So in dot format, okay? I have I want to print. I want to print Intel Corporation has 4000 million so I cannot print this like as it is, right? I cannot print this as it is. So now I have to tell Python, and I have to give it a certain format for it to understand that. Okay, I have to print it in this format, right? So now for that case, what we need to do is, of course, double quotes are there, okay? And then what? So there are certain things which are variables or values which it will take from the code itself. So for example, in this case, this curly braces means something enclosed in the curly braces means it's either a variable or it is a value that it has to or a value that we code like. So for example, 123456, into 36 if it can be even that, right? So this curly braces tells Python that, okay, this is something. This is either a variable name or some computation that I have to do or some number that I have to take. Next anything out of the curly braces is something that I have to print as it is that is all text. Okay. Now, what is happening is that now once I say zero, okay, zero, comma s, here. Okay, so zero comma s1, sorry, zero colon s and one colon, point, 1f. Okay, this is all very nice looking, but now I have to map. I have to map. So what is the value here? Now Python doesn't know, what is the zero colon? S, I don't know what is that value that I have to print. So now this zero tells Python that, okay, once. You have seen this. This means that you will have a format function at the end. Okay, so after this, double quotes, dot format, okay. Now what I'll do is I'll start looking inside. So they'll have to be, since there are two, there are two values enclosed within curly braces, my format function will also have two, two values here, right? So in that case, what is happening is, now in this in this place, which value should I populate? Should I populate firm name, or should I populate outstanding shares divided by 10 to the power six? Okay. Now that is dictated by this first item, first number, which is zero. So zero stands for the index. So this first element will give you the index of the value to be populated from the Format function, right? So that means, once I see the zero, that means that, okay, I have to pick form name. So form name I have to copy paste. Here has, okay, next is one. So one is what outstanding shares divided by 10 to the power six. Okay, I have to just take this and put here. However, I have an extra constraint here, saying that it's type float. Okay, that is, anyways, there. However, since there will be lot of zeros after the sorry, lot of digits after the decimal places. I want to restrict it to only one decimal place after the decimal point. So this will do that, okay. And, yeah, that's it. So then it will print Okay. I'll have to again, do this, and then it will print this, had I, had I put point two, then you will have two decimal places here. What is the ideal time suggested to practice coding every day for a beginner, so Surya can't, so you have to, you have to practice, that's correct. So you have to literally sit down and write code to get a hang of the coding, because just reading code will not help you, and it will not even get you that confidence that, oh, you know, this is the line of code that have to write, or, you know, it becomes a muscle memory also after a while if you Sit coding. So I would suggest at least one hour every day should be good. You know, you can take a topic and you can see, okay, today, I want to learn lists, so let me see, how do I initialize a list? How do I What are the functions that I can do on those lists? There's append, there's insert, there's pop, there's Delete. And so you can pick one topic per day, and then you can just kind of practice on a Python notebook. It should be good one hour, one hour to one and a half hour.

Unknown Speaker  3:07:57  
Is there any website to practice Python in fun way? I I'm not aware of any money content.

Speaker 1  3:08:07  
So where to get sample questions to code? So I believe there are a lot of practice questions on Python, on the LMS itself, so you can get in contact with your support manager, so they'll help you locate it. There are a lot of practice

Unknown Speaker  3:08:22  
questions on Python. Okay, I think that's it. So we are,

Speaker 1  3:08:34  
yeah, yeah, I think, I think that's all for today. So it's seven eight now, so I think we can close the session. So yeah, thank you guys. You.

