Speaker 1  0:02  
Everyone, hello. Welcome to this lecture, OTs two on volatility, trading and variance premium. This is Varun Kumar potra. Can you confirm whether I'm audible and also my screen is visible? You can just type it out in the chat and we'll proceed from there.

Unknown Speaker  0:39  
Okay, thanks, guys, thanks for the confirmation. Just a bit of

Speaker 1  0:44  
background of me, I've been in this quantitative finance industry for the past 11 years, and yeah, had experience as an options trader, institutionally, and also as a global micro analyst too. And I worked with couple of firms, so in algorithmic trading, basically as an algo trading strategist and developer. Currently, I'm leading the product team at invest AI, where we create trading algorithms and then create industry grade trading algorithms that goes live. So let's start learning. So the previous lecture, also you would have seen this disclaimer. This is just a disclaimer to explain how risky the options trading is, and just like any other assets, every asset has its risks and rewards. But particularly when it comes to options, there are more factors that results to this risk. So we're going to discuss all these risks in upcoming lectures too, and how to handle them, but it's a standard disclaimer for you to understand that all these things comes with risks, and all the software's codes, we are going to have a number of notebooks from OTS three, so they might have issues also, because as the days progress, the Pythonic code we use are depending on other libraries, right? So if there are any issues with update of those libraries this course might break. So use them with proper understanding. We're going to get that in upcoming lectures. So just to give a summary of what was discussed in OTS one, I'm sure it's a good introduction to you that would help you to get into the world of options trading. But the options trading philosophy was explained in detail in the last lecture, in addition to the two most important things, a trader always thinks about how to get a risk, sorry, how to get edge, and how it is related to risk. So these things were discussed in OTS one. But when it comes to options, there are more nuances that a trader should know so that you're going to get today. Also you all, there was also discussion on EMH, efficient market hypothesis, and also, what are all the elements of edge and risk? That's a good introduction this particular options trading complete classes are structured into six parts, where, as you move forward, you will be introduced to more and more aspects of how to explore this edge, and also what are all the ways you can use Python quantitative methods and also A general trading theory to handle this options market. So as we move forward, if you have any doubts, feel free to put it in the chat. And we are going to take a break probably in first 75 minutes and an hour after that. So if there are any unanswered questions, I will take up in the break. So starting to session two. So in this session, you're going to understand, again, this is not a completely practical session, just like options trading session one, because there are many mental blocks that need to be cleared before we actually move forward with the right models that we are going to use and the trading strategies, etc. So this is, you can even think of it like a compilation of all the elementary things you would need before you actually get into quantitative options trading. So that is a purview of this particular lecture. So where we start by understanding what are all the models and what are all the scenarios you're going to deal with options? Right? Then we talk about what are all the things that adds to risk, for example, as a human bias. Also, there is an adverse selection bias that generally we we have in any decision making process that we are going to discuss how it is implied in option trading. Then we are going to discuss the costs, also, because costs are one of the major factors of losing alpha, then we come to the core of why a trader would decide to trade options. And we'll extend it by understanding what are all the elements of options market that are interesting for a trader to take a risk on.

Speaker 1  4:52  
Then when it comes to theory, the whole concept of this OTS one to OTS six lectures is to not. Make you able to do volatility trading, which is what professional options traders does, which is what differentiates them from normal stock or equity trading, too. And we'll understand a concept called volatility premium, and why it exists, and how to explore that. That's the origin of this particular lecture, and as I'm the one who is going to take the next lectures also, and I created lots of notebooks too that support those lectures. So when I explain these concepts in OTS too, I am my objective is to make you ready to tackle all the challenging concept that comes from next lectures also. And I am pretty sure 20 to 30% of the like concepts covered in this lecture will be repeated again in the upcoming lectures, but with a practical application point of view. So for that reason, this lecture is important because it gives you good foundation and mental models and also how to think about options in different ways. So now that the introduction is done, let's move ahead and again, we'll start with the very most important question every trader thinks about, how do you find trades with edge I know many people follow Reddit threads, maybe Financial Times, etc, outlets. Some will follow Bloomberg, some will follow famous analysts for the trades,

Unknown Speaker  6:25  
because they believe that they could generate certain kind of edge, right? But when you're talking about options

Speaker 1  6:33  
trading, or any kind of quantitative bent of trading, there are two ways you generate these trades, and of course, both has edge, but they can be divided into two ways, the first one being Model Driven trading and the second one being event driven trading. I'm going to give you examples, a different examples of how to kind of understand what this model driven trading and event driven trading is. But at a simple level, Model Driven trading is nothing, but you have a model that's going to output certain numbers by understanding those numbers, either you trade or don't trade, right? But event driven is more specific. For example, if there, if there are elections in your area which could impact your financial markets. You might trade a ticket trade that banks on those election results, or pretty common thing is trading when a particular stock has released its quarterly report. And another common one is maybe trading when the interest rates changes are out. Those are all considered event driven trades, where the action you take depends on the outcome of an event. But when it comes to model, you don't just limit to an event. You have a model that studies the market, day in and day out, and gives you certain numbers, and based on certain numbers, you have calculated trades taken. So as I was saying, in all the lectures we have, we're going to discuss both approaches and also trading strategies that are fundamentally driven by these two lectures, two more, two approaches, basically the model driven and even driven. But let's start with examples we know so that we'll intuitively understand what a model driven approaches and event driven approaches. So let's take this example. Let's study, let's say Blackjack, right? I'm not sure how many people of this particular bunch has played blackjack, but there are certain approaches professionals to take you would have seen movies or in real time. Also, there are people who can do card counting. So card counting is nothing, but depending on how when people are actually shuffling the cards, they would understand how many cards are there and what are the probability of a card. For example, AAS is drawn, then they can calculate the probability of another card being drawn, and they might have certain value given to that ace, depending on that. There are many models that helps you to play Jack blackjack efficiently, but that's a model driven approach. Then how does it differ when there is a strategy, a striking is an event driven approach, where, when, whoever is dealing, when they pull ace, then you might understand, okay, what is the next card? For example, when, when the beginning of the play, let's say number seven or number eight is next to ace. Then when the shuffle happens, there are high chances that the seven would be closer to ace. So that's an event driven thought process compared to Model Driven thought process of card counting. Now, how does it related to trading? Right? Let's understand sports analogy. Also. We would have seen FIFA. You would have seen cricket, where, when. Are actually watching the matches. You see a running commentary on different different metrics, right? Like somebody would say, there are 80% chances that this over could be a deciding factor of the entire game, because their analysis is backed by models. They have simulations continuously running based on historical performance of the player the ground they are playing with, and also the current conditions, and they spew out numbers every second. But there are also event driven approaches here, where, whenever there is a extreme event that happens, for example, if it is cricket, losing five he gets in first 10 hours, for example. So that is an extreme case, and it's very easy for the people to react to it. They might want to bet against the player who is taking the bet right. So that is an event driven approach, where you're not trying to understand the game or predict the game every second, but only when an extreme event happens, you can confidently bet on that. So these are the approaches to approaches that happens in any kind of complex scenario where a human is trying to predict what would happen. Now, when it comes to options, I also give you a basic trading analogy. But let's understand in the space of options. When it comes to options, you would have heard Black Scholes model, right? We are going to discuss on this in detail in the upcoming lectures. But Black Scholes

Speaker 1  11:27  
is a model that was that's basically used to calculate the premium of an option depending on n, number of variables. That is a discussion for another time. But essentially, Black Scholes is a model for you, so any kind of a change in input going to give you different premium value. So continuously, a Black Scholes model can give you premium of any kind of options contract you want depending on that you can think, okay, currently a call option is at $4 and my Black Scholes says its theoretical value is $2 maybe $4 is too costly. You don't want to trade. You will wait. Maybe your Black Scholes says its theoretical value is $10 and currently it is trading at $4 maybe you would want to trade. I'm just giving you a basic example for your intuition. So this is our model. Is going to give you numbers continuously. But when we compare that with variance premium approach, which, which we will go in more detail with practical examples, is event driven approach, variance driven. Basically variance premium is a phenomenon with the play of volatility. So if the volatility is such and such, you're going to take certain actions. So we are going to discuss about these models in OTS three. But as we move forward, we are going to understand how to find particular events which are which gives you more sense of control to take options positions. For example, we will discuss how to deal with earnings. Stock releases earnings now, how do we strategize an options volatility position before the earnings, during earnings phase and also after earnings too? Not only that, we are also going to discuss in OTS four how we are going to deal with interest rate changes, interest rates announcements. So that is a event based approach. So this classification is very important. I'm going to show you example of why. But let's come back to the basics. I'm sure, if not options, most of you would have traded general equity, right stocks. So if I had to bring it down to more easier idea of how these two will change, many of you guys would have already used technical analysis, right and in technical analysis, traders look for certain kind of triggers, a simple one, being a resistance being weak. Let's say, for example, there is a stock and its resistance is broken. That is an event for you. And I'm sure most of the people, technical traders, will take a long position when a resistance is broken with volume. That is a event driven approach. But there are quantitative traders who has algorithms predict stock price every single day that is a model driven approach. So now that, I hope you have failed understanding of what a model driven and event driven approach is, so let's understand what are all the advantages and disadvantages of model driven approach. Before that, can you guys type out if my phase, like, the way, the speed at which I'm talking is okay, my delivery is fine. If not, I'll paste it down.

Speaker 1  15:00  
Okay, thanks guys, thanks for the confirmation. I'll continue with the same pace. So let's understand what are all the pros and cons of model driven approach? First of all, it's quite straightforward. If you are going to use a model driven approach, the non negotiable thing is, you should have a great model. It's like using a calculator, right? If you're banking on a calculator to do your calculations, first of all, the calculation should work extremely right? There should be no freedom for error, right? So, same ideology, when you have a model, first of all, it should be a good model. That's why, whenever we talk about options pricing model, we start with Black and Scholes. We start start with Black Scholes model. Even though there are many advanced models that are used by exchanges and quantitative traders nowadays, we still lean back on Black Scholes model because of how good the model is. I know there are certain disadvantages with those model, but your learning starts there, right? You pick a good model, study its extremes, study its pros and cons, see what are the changes you could do. And there are issues with Black Scholes also we are going to discuss, but any model will not work 100% of times, right? When I say you should have a good model, it doesn't mean it should be able to tell you trades that are absolutely profitable. No model also fails. Every model has their limitations. For example, if you have a simple calculator that allows only 10 digit as input, now you can't say it is a very good or perfect calculator, because you can't input 100 digit, right? Similarly, any model will fail at some level. So the goodness comes in you understanding its limitations and putting it to right use when they work. And any model that consistency gives you a fair bit of results can be converted into a trading signal, right? So for example, as I was saying, if you are very good at using black source model to understand what's happening in the market, definitely you can derive from trading signal. Sort of it, because if you, if I give you a model, a complex stochastic calculus model, and ask you to judge whether it is a good model or a bad model. The very question you can ask is, what is the use of it? How are we going to use today, we are discussing about trading. So any model that comes into your plate, you can actually convert into trading signal and then judge it whether the model is good or not, because our objective is to generate alpha generate trades by the model. So a good model need not give you completely profitable trades, but if you have enough number of good trades, that's a good model, and a great model will let you scale as well. I'm going to spend a minute on this because I see, I've seen many traders in my life, even even my progression, also, if I look back initially, whatever strategies I was using, they were pretty basic and they were completely technical analysis based. They were not quantitative, or they were not ml based strategies. But at that time, my difficulty was to scale them. So I might have a approach to get good rates, but scaling them was very difficult. Scaling them in terms of using more capital with the same strategy or expanding it to different asset classes. But as I move forward with model based approach, and as I move forward to quantitative models and also ml based trading algorithms, the positive thing was I could scale if I use it with 100k account, definitely I can scale them up with a million account or 5 million account since. So the takeaway here is a model is great and more practical only when you could scale it, or it's definitely you will be limited by the capacities of the model. So that's about, what are the advantages and disabilities of a model driven approach. Let me go to the next slide. Now the same discussion. Let's understand in terms of options trading. I know I was telling you model driven approach, positives and negatives, but how does it relate to option trading, and in fact, how does it relate to what you are going to learn in this entire stack of OTS six OTS lectures, the six lectures. So in these six lectures, the majority of the learnings and practical applications are volatility trading of options, right? The reason why we picked volatility, in fact, most of the professional traders in options talk about volatility. Trading is a volatility is an aspect of a contract that is predictable. For example,

Speaker 1  19:53  
everybody tries to predict where the price would go right. We might say price would definitely going to shoot up and take long. Own positions, or we might predict price will definitely crash, and we might take short position more often or not. We might go wrong also. But if you are trying to predict volatility, how volatile the market could be, how uncertain the trades could be, you have higher predictive power than predicting the price. In fact, if I had to talk fundamentally, the reason why options market exist is for this very behavior of volatility. If there is no volatility, there is no reason to deal with volatility. We might as well trade stocks, isn't it, we could all lean back to futures of indices, and if you want to trade stocks, you can trade stocks, but the reason why everybody comes to options market is the freedom volatility gives you, and also the ability for you to take different combination of trades. So that is why that we trade options. The volatility is the main reason. But it doesn't stop there, right? Yeah, we all understand at some level, at least, you understand at some level, because I'm saying volatility is a reason why. But when it comes to practice first, you should be able to measure volatility, right? If I'm saying volatility is the one that drives options market first, you should be able to measure the volatility, but it shouldn't stop there. You should be able to predict volatility. So what is the volatility right now, and what could be the volatility in future? And now, can I strategize a trading signal from here? So considering the limitations of trading, you don't need to have a capacity to 200% predictability. This is actually very important, because I know we all came from different different backgrounds. Some are engineers, some are mathematic, who has good mathematical band of mind. Some may not have but this is a common MSA quality of people who has mathematical bent of mind to explore opportunities for 100% predictability. If they have a prediction model, they would want the prediction model to be right most of the times. But when it comes to trading, it doesn't work like that. Trading, even if you have a model that is fairly decent, then you can definitely make a good trade out of it. For example, most of the machine learning models that we use for trading, I'm sure you would also have worked with some of the machine learning models in ePAT. You wouldn't have, let's say 80% predictability. 90% predictability, No, we just need a model that is better than flip of a coin. If it is, let's say 55% definitely. You can take it live by making few adjustments, right? So if you are talking about a very simple model, you just need to have that model to give you a ballpark numbers. If my model tells that a stock goes from 100 to 120 tomorrow, as a research analyst, I might always want to check whether it went to 120 tomorrow or not from 100. But as a trader, it's good enough, as long as it stays above 100 for me, right? So for all practical purposes, for a trailer, you don't need to have a exactly predictable model. You just need to have a good enough model. Because for the like, just because we want 100% predictability, we try to add more inputs to it. For example, this is a common case with how people use machine learning models, most often than not, most of the quantitative analysis models used by banks or trading strategies used by hedge funds, they're pretty simple. We might be thinking highly complex inputs to the ML model and try to create something as a student or somebody who is starting to learn ml, but in production grade algorithms. They're all simple inputs, but they get a very good enough output. So the problem here is, when we try to create a complex model, it needs high frequency data, right? I've had this discussion with many traders where, who wants to create options trading strategies,

Speaker 1  24:19  
they always want to have an input of bid, ask, spread of an option, they always try and try to get tick data of options. Not saying it's impossible to get the data. It's just that even if you're able to get tick data of options, options or any kind of assets prices, it's very difficult to clean them, maintain them and understanding the complexities of how a small error in your input data balloons to a wrong trading signal right. So keeping all this in mind, there are issues with Model Driven trading, but if you understand, you don't need to create a extremely perfect model. You. Definitely make adjustments and take trading signals out of it. Now when we come to the other side, which is event driven model or situation driven model, right? So when you're talking about Model Driven trading, you have a theoretical backing. So far we've been talking about volatility. So since I'm studying volatility, since my model is based on volatility, if it gives me a buy signal or a sell signal, at least theoretically, I'll be able to support it, because volatility, implied volatility, so and so. Market is so and so maybe the model gave me a buy signal. But when you're talking about situation driven trading, it's actually not that straightforward, because for example, every time Apple gives you positive returns, let's say there is a event driven trading strategy that tells you, after the earnings release of Apple, if the earnings are positive, buy Apple. If earnings are negative, sell Apple. I'm just taking apple as an example. It could be any stock, ABC. In such case, since it is an event trading model, it might be intuitively sensible, right? If a positive earnings are there by its negative earnings are there, sell it. But if you actually look at the data, it wouldn't work. Most of the times it wouldn't work. Most of the times you see a stock released a positive earnings, and then you see a drop in price. That happens more often than not. I know it's surprising for people who did never trade it like that, but most of the times, there could be a drawdown in the stock price after the positive earnings. So because you are starting at a statistical level, you are not understanding what is the model or what is the phenomenon that resulted in this positive or negative trade. You are only focused on that event, but the moment in the price need not 100% be explained by that event. The same example I gave, if there is an earnings release, the price movement needed 100% depending on those earnings. It could be some external factor which you are not considering. But as an event driven trader, we lock down to that particular event, and we think everything can be explained by that event. For that very reason, it's very difficult to find the exact reason why a particular event gave you a positive or negative signal, or sometimes there would be delay also, like a positive earnings might come today, but you might not see 15% raise the next day. It might happen over a week. It's very difficult to scale these kind of strategies, like, how many times Apple releases its earnings report right four times in a year. Any stock, it won't be every month, isn't it? So if you want to scale this opportunity to higher capital or more frequent trading, it's very difficult for an event trading approach. So for this reason, as a trader in your arsenal, I've seen many profitable traders and industry grade traders. They have their model driven approach. They have their models that tells what is happening in the market. And they have special trading strategies, which are event driven strategies. So day in, day out, there are intraday traders who trade day in, day out, right? But when it is an earning season, you see a difference in their approach. So what they're actually doing is they have model driven approach every single day. When it comes to these events, they use event driven strategies. So the key takeaway here is don't completely bank on intervention strategies. Event driven. Strategies are very good for your alpha, very good for your long term profitability. Because when there is a time to make money, as a trader, you should definitely make money, but when it is not time to make money, you should have some models that gives you that consistent alpha so that your overall portfolio health is good. This is the same philosophy you take for options also.

Speaker 1  29:05  
So now there comes an issue, right? For example, we are saying we need not be 100% sure to actually take a trading decision. So the ambiguity here comes from the approach we take in real life, isn't it? So in real life, we want, we don't want, we don't want 60% chance, right? We would always go for 8090, 100% chance. So we need to come out of that mindset. Because if I am somebody who is doing research like academics, in academics, everybody looks for a T stat of two, that's why you would have seen P value related to 0.05 so to keep it intuitively t start, she stat of two tells you whatever you're predicting is far away from random, okay, but T stat of one tells you whatever you're predicting. Your value is a bit closer to random. So now our mindset should be as a trader. First of all, don't have random decisions. Okay, you shouldn't be a coin flip whether I buy a stock or sell a stock, but if you could go beyond that 50% probability you're good, you don't need to go for 80% 90% as long as your T stat is one, it need not be extreme like two, if it is above 50% and if you could find those good rates, definitely, you can embrace that ambiguity and move forward as a trader. We're going to see few examples for that, but before that, let understand at an approach level why this matters, right? Because, let's say you started trading today, it's actually very uncomfortable, because, again, when anybody see, I've had experience leading a trading desk to where, maybe after every three, four months, we used to have new traders, and then they have to get trained, and then they would be bit made traders, right? So even in that level, I've seen new traders not taking positions that frequently they might take even though they are intraday traders, they might take two trades per day, and they're very Apprentice on entering it right, because they are waiting for that perfect market setup, because they don't want to be in an uncertain scenario, and kind of feel that uncomfortably, right? But that mode had to be broken when you are approaching any kind of trading, especially options trading, because options trading, it's not difficult to learn options trading and trade, but it's important to understand the complexities as comes with so that approach would only be fueled when you don't have uncomfortability to deal with this uncertainty, right? So even if you have a bad trade, there is something to learn. In fact, in OTS three and OTs four, there are scenarios where we both sit together, take a trade, understand a trade, and try to brainstorm how to improve the trade because initially I created a scenario where we come up with a model driven approach, but then we lose money, then we try to improve the trading signal, and then slowly, as we change the trading signal, the profitability increases. That is the approach we need, and that approach you would be comfortable to take. It only when you agree that, okay, there is an uncertainty, even an extremely good model or a good trade can result to a bad trade when you close it. So with this in mind, let's come back to the fundamentals of the issues with why or how a human thinks, and even statistics, right? See, statistics or something that can be, that can be changed to how we want to present it right. See you, if you have a story, you can pull in any statistic to actually sing to the story. But I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about an adverse selection, where, even though the statistics looks good, you might have to think deep about the results. I'm going to give you one example. This is actually very practical. Where many of the people face it like they take a trading strategy, they might backtest a trading strategy, it looks extremely good, but when they take it live, they don't get as much alpha as backtest said, right? So pretty common. I've seen many people try to add conditions like RSA above 30, maybe em across, or of nine versus 18, and add the two volume increase, and then they do backtest. It looks extremely good in backtest. And there are many ready threads you can actually go and see how the back tests are, but when they go live, definitely it wouldn't reciprocate the same The reason is the you need to understand the market behavior. It's not always about the statistics. I know statistics are important. That's what we lean on when we study anything, but you should also understand the market microstructure.

Speaker 1  34:04  
A simple example being when we are back testing, if you are, maybe I'll show you a chat. Let's let's, like, don't want to bore you with just these slides. Let's pick up. Just give me one second. Let's pick one chat, which talk. Let's take apple. Let's have a very simple chat, a simple line chat. I know we're not talking about technical analysis, so I'm just showing you a line chat. And imagine you have, you have an extremely good algorithm that picks you few levels. Let me park those levels. Let's say you have an algorithm that picked this level. Let's say you have a model that. Picked this maybe. Let's pick close. Okay.

Speaker 1  35:09  
By the way, it's not that difficult to create one such algorithm, but the difficulty lies in create making it a profitable one. I'm just showing this example because you'll understand what are the issues you may face when you're actually taking some options, trading algorithm live if you see, let's say you have a machine learning your screen is not visible, okay, let me reshare just one moment. Thanks.

Unknown Speaker  35:42  
Okay, entire screen. Okay, how about now? Yes, it's visible. So, okay, thanks.

Speaker 1  35:55  
Sure. So I was just showing you this chat where I marked a few lows. Okay, so imagine you have a machine learning algorithm or a simple mathematical equation that is able to mark this particular laws. Means it's going to tell you what the where the laws are. So it's very simple. You just need to buy the next day. So if you take this particular algorithm and these entries, what I'm saying is, in your backtest, it looks fantastic. Like, yeah, you're buying it low. Maybe you have a target of 3% and every time you are just entering at some price and you're exiting in, let's see this is when, like 40% let's say 10% 10% you close your position. Then again, once your algorithm told you you bought it, and 10% you close your position. Let's say you repeatedly did it in backtest. It's very simple, right? You can actually test it manually also, but when you actually go live, this might not produce the same results, for the reason being, when an algorithm tell you to buy, you it will also tell you a price to buy. For example, the price is two, zero, 5.9 so you would go ahead and put a limit order, but what are all the chances that that order will get filled? Right? So I'm sure most of you would outrade but for more understanding you have, you need to place an order for a for going a contract at certain price, and only if somebody is willing to sell you a two, zero, 5.9 you're going to get a fill. That means you're going to have a successful buy order. Now here, our algorithm predicted extreme levels because it was the machine learning algorithm is trained with extreme lows, so it's trying to predict to extreme lows, right? But the trading activity that happens here would be very, very minor. For example, if I had to show you can restrict chart the extremes you see the wigs, you don't see much volume in this most of the volume you see in the body. So there are very few buyers or sellers that exists in these extreme prices. But when you have certain kind of prediction algorithms, it might want you to place an order here. Even if you place here, you would not have sellers to have that successful buy order. This is an understanding of market microstructure a trader should have, and this is the reason why the backtest results will not be same as live results. And when we come to options, if, in general, also right, if you if some, if you want to buy it 100 rupee, and suddenly a seller comes and sells to you. That is a scenario which you should be afraid of, because when it comes to any trading, right, there is buying and selling. As a buyer, we feel we are right, but as a seller, also the seller feels he is right, right. So there are chances that if you get a fill real quick. That means maybe you're wrong, maybe that could lead to a bad trade. So keeping this thought in mind lets me take you back to the adverse selection bias. So whenever we are back testing, for example, here you can see a histogram of the profit and loss distribution of your back test results. The simple way to understanding it is, whenever we are losing, these are the number of trades that lost. For example, 10 trades made you $40 loss. Some 26 trades gave you $10 loss, but 40 trades gave you profit of $30 so it looks very straightforward this, but whatever trading strategy we back tested has more frequency of profits than more frequency of losses overall. It looks like a profitable algorithm to me, and I might be confident to take it live. It. But only thing you need to understand is this doesn't mean that you are going to get profits in real time, because we did, as I said, they when you are actually trying to deploy it in live, you might not get a fill, right? So, for example, what if, wherever you are losing, as soon as you place a buy order, you are getting a fill. There are sellers waiting for you to buy but whenever you are actually getting profits, imagine these are all the trades where you never get a fill, because in backtest, you don't know that right. In backtest, you assume my model asked me to buy it 100, and I bought it 100. But in real life, even if you place an order at 100, the demand would have been so high, you would never get a fill. People who placed at a one, not two, one, not three, 110, would have actually got a fill, and then they got profit. You placed

Speaker 1  40:54  
at 100, and there might be no sellers. So this kind of an approach has an adverse selection, where we are not trying to differentiate a good trade with a bad trade. So this is the reason you should actually understand not all good back test will give you good results. See this, this is essentially understand these red ones are a bad trade, right? Means the trades that are getting filled very easily. Imagine you split your trades into two parts. Earlier, we were just considering all as one trade, one type of a trade. Now let's divide into a good trade and a bad trade. Good trade is a trade that doesn't give you essentially, think of it like this, good trade is trade which gives you fill. Bad trade is trade which is not giving you fill, right? If you spread this, then you will understand, if I if there is a high chance for me to actually buy the stock, how much am I getting? Only when you divide this into good and bad trades, you're going to understand the real capacity of your backtest. So all these things will act against you as a trader, because as of now, there would be no capacity for you to check this way. Even if you have high frequency data, you don't know whether, if you take it live, whether you can actually get a fill or not. So for this very reason, immediately, there are few things that are actively acting against you. The another thing is pretty common costs, right? Whenever you take a trade, there are costs involved. There are different types of costs involved. So a cost that nobody actually can quantify exactly is a bit dust spread, which is what we have been talking about. So I know you must be thinking, Varun, why don't we back test using market orders, like, for example, if we could get historical Bid and Ask instead of assuming we place order at $100 and we get a fill at $100 Why don't we place a market order at 100 and it will hit wherever it hits, maybe one, not one, not two. Again, this is the cost that is incurred in real life. In real life, if you want to buy a stock, you want to buy it 100, you might not be able to do you might have to push it to one, not five or 110 to actually take so that is also a cost, because in back test, you're assuming you bought it 100, but in real life, you would only be able to buy it 102, so that is called as bidask spread related cost. And definitely there are these taxes, brokerages and exchange fee, etc, if you are using a paid platform, the platform fee, all these things will actually, essentially, maybe, if you your back test says you got 100 rupees or $100 as a profit, 20 to 30 rupees will be gone for your cost if it is an extremely good algorithm. Let me tell you, if you have a profitable strategy, that is a win. But on top of it, if you add costs, 80% of the strategies will become worthless, because that's what the reality is. Unless you have costs included in your trading strategy, it's highly unlikely that any back test will turn into a profitable, live trading algorithm. So keeping all these in mind, you need to have a method to kind of include these in your back test, because see, there are practical approaches. Also, let me. Let me give you a few examples. First of all, I'm telling you, you don't know whether your back test is actually considering a probability of you getting a trade or not. So what is a common approach? Right? If I tell you, out of your back test says you took 10 trades and all 10 trades are profitable, but when it comes to reality, you took 10 trades, and only five trades you were able to successfully execute. Rest of the five trades. Market didn't actually give you a chance to buy you place orders at 100, and then market nobody sold you at 100. Market went till 101, and it went up. So only logical way to counter this adverse selection is take all trades. Trades, right? If model gives you 100 trades, take 100 trades, at least 60, 70% trades will be filled. And you can actually can get some alpha. But if you do that, your costs are going to be high. So if you keep on taking all the trades, then definitely your costs are going to be extremely high. So this is the difficulty. There are many optimization algorithms that are created for this, but as a trader, you should make your mind, this is there. This definitely is there. This is the reason people go for discount brokers. People go for, for example, there are, I don't know how many people

Speaker 1  45:37  
trade crypto, but if somebody is trading crypto, there are options in crypto also, where you have market making capability. If you are a market maker, then you get some commission from the exchange. And if there are this very, extremely discount brokers, and people go for extra leverage also, but don't do that. If you go for leverage, you have more costs. See, I know there are people who wants to control the cost, so they think, okay, if I use lesser capital for the same strategy by using leverage, that's better, but no, you would increase your cost by multi fold if you go for leverage. But yes, the straightforward way is just find brokers which has lower brokerages and also lower platform fees, and also whenever you are entering, if you, let's say you are entering an options contract, because your model says, so, yeah, be aggressive if you're not getting a fill at 100, maybe place at 101, or 102 and enter the position if it is a momentum position. So think of these like this, if you, if you have a momentum approach, let's say you think, you think a stock would go up or a call option would go up, fine, at least be aggressive about it when you're entering but when you are hedging, right, we are going to have all discussions on hedging as we move forward. Maybe when you are hedging, don't hedge aggressively. You save your cost there. So this is theory, and this is a practical approach to but how we do it mathematics that we're going to learn as we move forward in OTS 3456, just to repeat, OTs one is an introduction. OTs two is also a part of OTS three. Two is a foundation that you're going to have to clearly and intuitively understand what happens in volatility trading, and this is a major aspect, because a trader depends on two things, age and risk. You should also you should be very confident and very able to find an edge, but you should be very knowledgeable to understand where the risk comes, what eats away the edge, that is costs, and also some issues that comes with models that we are going to see. So with this ideology in mind, let's see how it plays in options in trading, right? So because whatever we have discussed so far, it is common for any kind of trading, be it crypto trading, or be it equity trading, be it futures trading, anything, but when it specifically comes to options trading, all these baggage will be there on you as a trader. But in addition to this, there are few positives and negatives, or unless, a few complexities of options trading you should understand so as a trader, if you know what are all the things that are there in general trading behavior, and what are the complexity of options you should you would be a definite confident trader only with this information you can actually Garner that confidence, because it's very heartbreaking to have a profitable back testing algorithm keep going to production or go to keeping them in live and then losing money, right? So for that very reason, we're going to spend some time on ideologies of options and trading too, so that you know the right way to think. But now I'm going to give you a positive thing, positive thing about options and trading, because a general, general rule in market sales, if you could find a simple trade or a simple product to trade market is going to make it complex. I'll give you examples, right? How difficult it is to trade a stock. It's very easy. You find a stock, find a price, buy at that price, sell at higher price. Sounds very simple, right? But when I talk about options, you must have heard about butterfly strategy or iron condor. You would have heard all these complex names. You would have heard term structure, all these things, right? So options on the fields looks very complex, but the rule in the market is, if you have a simple asset plans. It's actually, there are many complicated ways to trade it. I'll give you an example. Let's take futures. Futures is very simple, straightforward contract to trade if you if you believe a future would go up, let's say Apple futures, or, let's say nifty futures. Or. SNP, 500 futures. You buy those futures. Or if I had to tone it down of complexity, if you believe SNP, 500 would go up. Very simple, go and buy SNP, 500 futures. If you believe SNP, 500 is going to fall in next two months. Simple, go short. SNP, 500 futures. See how simple this particular contract to trade is, but you know how we have made it complex. We made it complex by using techniques like spoofing. I don't know how many guys know spoofing, stacking, flipping and stop hunting,

Speaker 1  50:37  
but in the past, in my professional trading experience, I've seen people do that and to be guilty. I've done this also as when I was learning, and only after few days I came to know that is an activity which is a no no, which is actually very clearly seen by an exchange, and you would be fined if you do all these activities. For example, is poofing, is a very simple example. A buyer comes keeps a very big order at $100 and you can see it in your BI task spread. You can in your that's called Depth of market, or bitus spread, where you can see at what price, how many orders are there. It's pretty common in all the trading platforms now. So a buyer who wants the market to go up initially? They buy very big order at 100 so everybody thinks that if a rich person, or a person with big capital is trying to buy it $100 that means the stock is going to go up. So people will flock and take the price higher at 101102, and they take it higher till one $10 then this particular $100 order will be removed, and that same person is going to sell it. I'm going to show you an example for the same this gives you an idea of how these things work, spoofing. So

Unknown Speaker  52:03  
let's take a depth of market chat. So let's take this simple depth of market.

Speaker 1  52:13  
So this is called as depth of market, or order chain. You can call it anything where you can see the bids and the asks. So these are all the buyers and these are all the sellers you could see at $13 there is a size of 16. That means there are 16 buy orders waiting to buy at 13.45 but there are 20 sell orders waiting to sell at 13.80 either these guys should go up and sell buy at 1380 or these sellers should come down and buy at 1345 but if you see there is a 500k mean five like half a million orders you see at 1315, so how spoofing happens is this particular person, he will remove this order and place it at here, 1341 so if this phenomenon happens, sellers will think, Okay, anyway, big buyers are coming. So they remove their sell orders, and essentially, within a minute, they stock this price will go from $13 to $14 right? This is called a spoofing because earlier it looks like the demand is at 1315 then suddenly it shifted to 1340 and this poofing keeps on happening, which is an artificial increase in demand. So it is a simple contract to trade if you want, if you believe a stock would go up, you should have actually placed a buy order somewhere here, and then call it a day. If you get a fill, you get a fill. But we made it complex by doing all these activities like spoofing. There are other things like stacking, etc. We don't want to get into that because that's not area of interest now. But these things happens because the contract is very simple to trade. We kind of made it complex. Similarly, when it comes to options, we don't have such complex things that are happening. There are few things that are happening in the market these days, but not at this level. Right? Options contract itself is complex, but it's not that complicated to trade. I mean, there are specific structures of calls and puts you have, and there is a definite outcome you have marked. If you believe volatility would go up, you take certain kind of positions. We are going to create those strategies from scratch as we move forward, but I'm giving you an idea. If you have a definitive outcome output, in mind, you can have a complex option strategy ready. So the option strategy might be complex, but the way to trade is pretty simple, pretty straightforward. So that is the one that is going to support you in your options trading journey. Have a clear objective of what happens in the market. If you believe anything, you can create an option trading strategy. See that is not possible when you're trading stocks. So if I'm. Trading stocks. If I tell you the market is going to go crazy, it's going to move up and down randomly. You can't do anything, right? If somebody comes and says, market will go from 100 to 120 you can easily buy at 100, sell at 120 but if somebody tells you, market will go crazy, it just moves up and down randomly, every day. You can't do anything in equity, but in options, you can definitely make money out of it. In options, you can understand how to deal with it, combining calls and puts, so it's simple in that way, as long as your thought process is very clear, and that is the one reason why we have options. We also started the class with the same discussion, the volatility is one thing that kind of differentiates all kinds of trading assets with options. So if you are able to understand how the volatility is defining the market, you can definitely create extremely good strategies in options, but you can't do anything in equity. If the volatility going up in equity, in fact, people will be scared. But in options, you can definitely trade. So the whole point of all these OTS lectures is to make you ready to deal with this volatility. Calculate volatility. In fact, OTs three is named as, I think OTS four is exactly named as that volatility measurement and forecast is OTS four for you, where you would understand how to study this fluctuations and take a options trading position and the major driving of driver of this premium. So whenever you are buying an option, you pay a premium right like if it's a call option or a put option. The premium moves because of volatility. Everybody thinks, I know. The Beginners think if a stock goes up, I can buy call and then I can gain money. No, that's not the case. If you simply back this, you will understand not every time a stock goes up, your call option goes up. That is counter intuitive, only if you have limited knowledge on this, but as you understand volatility more, you would get it your options premium is not just defined

Speaker 1  57:06  
by where the stock would go or where the underlying would go, but it is largely driven by, or also largely driven by the volatility of volatile the market is how the implied volatilities. How they realize volatility is etc.

Unknown Speaker  57:26  
Just give me one second once again, I see there is some disturbance. Yes, let's continue.

Speaker 1  57:39  
So as I was saying when we are talking about why options the number one point is volatility, because the markets has

Unknown Speaker  57:49  
an innate ability to counter the volatility with options. We will definitely use it to create trading strategies.

Speaker 1  57:57  
Now you see a extremely well thought of line by Mr. William sharp. You would have heard sharp ratio, right? So for predicting future values, historical data appear to be quite useful with respect to standard deviation and virtually useless for expected returns. So this particular line is very is a foundation of what we are going to discuss. In fact, it's a foundation of majority of option trading strategies out there. Now, essentially, to keep it simple, what it means is, it's difficult to predict where the stock would go, but it's fairly easy to predict how it would go. Or to keep it in your more trading terms, it's very difficult to predict the directionality of a stock, right? It's or, let's say, it's very difficult to predict at what price it lands, but it's fairly easy to predict how volatile the path may be. Let me show you an example. Let's take the same Apple stock as example. Let me just keep it very simple, delete this. Yes. So if you see this, you'll see in the price went from somewhere here till here, which went up by 65% since April, right? It's very difficult actually to predict that it's going to go to 286 but how will it go? Is it a strong trend? It doesn't look like an extremely strong trend to me, because I know there is a trend, but there is lot of volatility. For example, if you see this phase, the market just stayed here. It went up, fell down, went up, fell down, then it fell down, and then short up. So this is a volatile scenario for us. I know there is a directionality, but still there is lots of volatility. So the common industry knowledge is you can actually predict this volatility. You can say market is going to be volatile tomorrow. That is fairly easy. Then saying market is going to go up tomorrow. It right? We're going to see more statistics on this. So keeping this in mind, we have volatility as a main driver of all profitability for us and everything that happens in the markets. So let's let me have a question. Can you guys type it out? How many of you has gone through the options primer. I'm sure you have access to options primer in your lectures, according to your response, I'm going to paste my lecture from here on. I'm

Speaker 1  1:00:43  
okay, yeah, thanks for the response. I see few people have already gone through it. Few people it's not, I think Nicolas was asking, was it mandatory? No, it's not mandatory. Just asking if you guys already done it looks like it's better to assume the primer was not completely done so that I will paste it slow. So let's do one thing. I see some of I think there was one student who is asking me, yeah, Mr. Ache Agarwal is saying, before we go to the break, can we summarize what covered in the class so far? Sure. So let's do one thing. I understand the primary is not done by everybody, so let's take a break here. But before we go on a break, let's summarize. What are all the things we have discussed so far, right? And then we go for a maybe five minute break. So let me summarize. So the whole discussion here is, before we actually go into depth of options trading strategies or models, etc, you need to understand the approach, right? So in trading, especially in options, there are two approaches, a model driven approach and an event driven approach. When it comes to model driven approach, you have your predictions every day. It's a continuous prediction model for you, and depending on what it spews out, what numbers you get from model, you strategize how to trade. But when it comes to event driven there are only few cases where you would get an output. For example, if I have a earnings driven strategy, earnings is my event, and only when earnings happens, my approach tells me whether to buy a stock or sell a stock. So the advantages with Model Driven is you can scale it well. I mean, as compared to an event driven, which is an earnings as an example, you have only major earnings four times per stock per year, right? So you can't trade that frequently. You can only trade once in a quarter. But when it comes to model driven, if you have a model on any of these things, you have more frequent trade, so you can scale it up well. But this is just an approach. We were talking about, approach of creating a strategy or understanding the market, but when it comes to actual trading, there are few issues with any kind of approach, be it even driven, be it Model Driven. That is the adverse selection and costs any kind of an approach, be it a model or event, you are going to do your back test, but it's very evident that your back test doesn't completely tell you whether you would get the same results in future or not, because the reason is, even if you place an order, you don't know whether you would actually get a fill or not. So in the same example we have seen earlier, as a buyer, if you want to buy at $100 and suddenly at $100 if there is a seller that is selling to you, that's not a positive for you, that means the Counterparty is actually willing to sell you at 100. How confident you are to buy it? 100 is the question. So not all trades are going to be good trades, not all trades are going to be bad trades. There is a segregation, but back tester will not tell you that segregation. So for that very reason, innately, you have something acting against you in the second is the cost, right? What is the cost of taking a trade? Surprisingly, the cost is same for a good trade or a profitable trade or a lost trade, right? Even if you're making money on top of it, you need to pay costs, the taxes, the brokerage, the data fee or the platform fee, etc, etc, depending on the region you are in, there are more or less same charges you have, so that is also acting against you. So you need to consider all this. For example, if you. Practices, you're getting $100 you should be responsible to kind of factor in these particular costs. So could account to 20 so there are few people who directly take if I take 10 trades per trade, I maybe $1 is my adverse selection and cost. People might go as deep as modeling those also. But the key takeaway is doing that is important now when it comes to options. So these are all about trading and approach, but when we actually come to option trading, people are very

Speaker 1  1:05:33  
people are not, not many people start with options trading compared to people start with equities or futures, right? Because they feel options trading is very complicated, but I'm here to tell you options contract or the way the options are built, are complex. I agree, but it's not complicated to trade options. It is very straightforward. Only thing you should know is, what is the objective of the trade? I know every trade has a single object to the profit that is undeniable, but the reason why you take a trade should be, should not be just profit or loss. It should be what is happening in the market. You have seen a behavior in the volatility that is leading you to take a trade good, even if it is profit or loss. You should go ahead and take a trade because there is a learning in it, for which you have more examples in OTS three, where we take a trade and then dissect OTS three and four. But that's an approach. Is the take. Key takeaway here that even if a profitable or a lost trade, as long as you have a reason to enter the trade, you can definitely improve that trade, but if you don't have a reason to enter that trade, it's very difficult. Options as a contract or options as an asset class will help you in that aspect. It's going to help you to get more understanding of the markets from the views of volatility, from the views of market conviction, and you would take more meaningful trades. That's the key takeaway of what we discussed about options, trading being options contract being complex, but trading is not complicated. Now. Now let's go more deeper. Let's understand the nuances of this contract itself. I'm sure this is covered in primer, but still, we will discuss this in this lecture and the next lecture too. So this is where we're going to take a break, and we'll be back in five minutes. Any doubts you have, just type it out in the chat. And once I'm back after five minutes, we are going, I'm going to attend to all the unanswered questions, and then we move ahead with understanding payoff functions. So let's be back in five minutes.

Speaker 1  1:12:50  
Hi everyone. Before we continue with the class, let's go through the open questions that are unanswered. So the question was Shreyas Madan, how to optimize model from retail and ft point of view. So I hope you're talking about medium frequency trading done by retailers. So first of all, to be specific to retail traders, what is the restriction we have, right? So that actually defines how you optimize your model. For example, there are models that might not give you profit at certain kind of capital, but as you increase the capital, you see an alpha that is coming in, especially when it is hedging. We'll see that example also in OTS five. But in terms of that, your defining factor for optimization could also be the restriction you have as a retail editor, which is capital, right? So optimize one optimization would be capital, like you optimize with respect to capital. If it can't be done, you decommission the model and move to another model. And another thing I see, I don't know how frequently you trade, when I say frequently, how active you be at the system. But I've seen this common issue with retail mftc is they pick MFT because they couldn't be at the system every single minute, like intraday traders, right? I know many intraday traders are also there in retail, but they can't be at the system regularly. So you don't want to have a model that gives you continuously trading signals, right? You might want to control your asset class also, or universe also. For example, if you're dealing with nifty fan, right? You have an intraday algorithm. You're going to have trading signal, let's say, every 20 minutes. So if you are a retail trader with that restriction and capital restriction, you might want to change your asset class to index. Instead of banking signals across 500 stocks. You might want to just bank on a single asset and an asset class which is nifty, 100 or SNP, 500 etc, index. In that case, your capital also will be limited in a sense, and also the number of. Trading. So trades also will be limited that those are my few thoughts on optimizing model for data. But if you have any specific model and a specific approach, definitely we can have a discussion on that. Then the next question is by Mr. JC Yang, I built a trading strategy that had a 1.45 sharp ratio descent, forgetting to include transaction cost. Okay, once I included them, the cajr went down to minus two. Okay, is it possible to be low frequency trading strategies with options? It's a very good question. And also, JC has already found the issue of trading costs and whatever we discussed, he was able to relate to his real life trading too. It's very much possible to build a low frequency trading strategy with options. Think, what does your intuition say? Right? So for whatever we discussed, there are more relevant approach. There is an event driven approach. Definitely, if you have an event driven approach, it would be as low frequency as it could get right. So even with options, yes, you can have high frequency strategies, medium and low frequency strategies. Also, it can definitely be done. The next question is from Arvind Kumar. Govindraj, do the risk is higher with options in comparison to trading equities? The complexity here, besides the contract is also the hedging strategy. How do one think about it while defining a strategy? So what Arvind opens here is the complexity also comes for the fact that if you are buying a call option for you, you might be buying as a directional bit. But innately, options are there for hedging, right? Ideally, any options or futures, or all these derivative markets, fundamentally came for a demand for hedging, because people, let's say I bought apple with $2 million and I

Speaker 1  1:16:58  
want to hold it for 20 years. But what happens in these 20 years? Right? There would be economic ups, upsides and downsides and organization. They also keep on taking apple. Let's take ABC. The stock could have good tier, bad year, it could have good earnings report, bad earnings report. So in bad scenarios, I might see a drawdown in my portfolio, which kind of shakes me right. See if I have a big capital and I'm banking on a single stock for 20 years, ideally, I'm believing in 20 years it will give me a multi fold returns, but within those 20 years, there would be scenarios where there would be extreme drawdowns in the stock. So people doesn't want that for that very reason. They wanted to hedge it. That's why they come to options and futures. What Mr. Ravind points out here is, do you think the complexity is also coming from innate quality of options contract being a hedging contract? If this is how we are thinking, how do we define a strategy. It's an extremely good and detailed question. Arvind, you are right. One more complexity comes the option contract being a vehicle for hedging. But the detail here is, where does it add complexity is does it add complexity in trading it or managing it. So the complexity comes in understanding where the price could go when it comes to expiry, right? Because we might think that the call option is going up because there is an extreme demand. But as Aravind pointed out, it could be because people are hedging. People are buying that call option because they want to hedge their positions. So when you're actually defining the strategy, there are two things. The first thing is, how do you decide to buy or sell a contract? Second, how are you going to manage it after you take it? It's not just about entering an exit in between. There would be many things that would happen to the price, right? How are you handling? It is one of the other important things. So your strategy doesn't just tell you where to buy, where to sell. It should also tell you between buying and selling at different levels. What should you do? So that answer comes from again hedging. So Arvind, we have a dedicated lecture on hedging. That's where you get to get more answers on this. But yes, if you ask me, while defining a strategy, how do you think about it? You at a basic level, you think, what would you do at extremes? What happens if there is an extreme, profitable scenario in three days? You bought at $100 let's say, let's talk about call option. You went long in a call option and you bought a $2 premium you want to sell. You were expecting it to be expired in the money, but before expiry itself, the premium went up so high. Now what do you do? Do you wait till expiry or just take the profit and go? So we need to decide. Us these scenarios also on the risk side, because it's a great thing just to think about profits, we should also think about losses. So what is your loss potential? Do you have a stop loss for it? Or, since options innately can be hedged, do you hedge it with another option? These are all the thoughts that should run in your mind when you're defining a strategy. I see there is one more question by raguvira, sorry. Ragavindra, sorry. Ravindra, let me read this in the context of index options like SPX, many traders track dealer gamma exposure to anticipate volatility, expansion or compression jump. Have you incorporated dealer gamma positioning in any trading or risk models before and in your experience, does it provide a statistical, measurable edge for option strategies such as spread straddles and intraday or identity trade? Are we going to study them in our future OTS classes? So this is good. So any kind of exposure, right when you're whether you're talking about gamma exposure, or whether you're talking about anything that innately comes from Greeks, that is actually important to understand. Because let me give you a simple example. Again. I come back to stock ABC. If you believe stock abc will go up, I told you at the beginning of the class, just because you think an underlying contract would go up, you can't buy call option. The reason being, in addition to the price the underlying contracts price, there are other elements like you rightly mentioned, the gamma exposure or Tita or Vega, etc, Greeks will definitely define the premium. So tracking this is a good step, but then how are we going to deal with it, with different strategies? Is your

Speaker 1  1:21:41  
second part of question, right? So in that case, definitely there is a statistical, measurable edge there. But more than me telling that there is an edge there to take a trade, I will tell you there is a scenario where it will help you not make losses. For example, this is the reason why people want to buy. They go for at the money, right? Because they know at the money has more Delta than compared to other contracts. I might be using some technical terms which need more explanation, which you'll get in the coming classes, but since the question is structured with these technical terms in mind, I'm telling you yes, few people would already take this decision without following, as you said, dealer Gama exposure, or any kind of Greeks, but those should be definitely be tracked, and not particularly about dealer Gama exposure. But yes, in OTS classes, you're going to discuss all the Greeks. And also we are going to have case studies on if I am planning to buy this underlying contract related options. How am I going to leverage my knowledge or my tracking of this particular Greeks and put it into use. We have Python notebooks also on the same so I answered ragwendra. So the last question is by Mr. Yash Verma, we can see a higher strike call to make it a bull call spread if volatility increases significantly, this way we can collect premium in addition to make money on naked call. Fantastic. Yes, you're right. This is the approach. In fact, this is the thought process we need when you're dealing with options. Because here you're doing two things. You're not only thinking about taking an option position, but also having a passive income. And secondly, you're also tracking volatility. This is a fantastic case. What Yes, Verma has presented, and this exactly what we are expecting to be good at when we finish all these OTS lectures, right? So that's great. Let's move ahead. And so let me continue the lecture from where we left before the break, which is options, payoff functions. So before we move forward. Let me give you bit of a clarity. Payoff is not the I must tell you, payoff is not profit or loss. Okay, people, some people might get confused. Payoff is, you can say, before adding any costs. I'll give you examples also, but payoff essentially tells you what is expected from an option position. If you have a call option, what is the payoff that means for the risk you're taking? What is the reward you're getting? Essentially, so call as a definition itself, says you get money if the stock goes above a particular strike price. So I'm not sure, since not everybody, not everybody, finished the initial primer, maybe I would give you more examples on the same but let's go through the equations first, and then maybe see what the chart says. So the equation is maximum of s minus x, comma, zero. Now wherever you see capital S, it essentially tells you what is the underlying price. So if you are trading Apple options, the price of that particular Apple contract is capital S, the underlying contract the stock. If you are trading SPX option like s and p5 100 options, then S and p5 100 index. Value is your capital S. So capital S is underlying price, capital X in any of the case in options literature, that is strike price. So if you believe the price would go up, then essentially the price should go above the strike. If you buy an options contract at 100 strike. Then only when the expiry happens above 100 you will get money. If the contract goes to 110 you get 100 minus 110 minus 100, right? The contract goes to 200 you get 200 minus 100, essentially the difference between the strike and the underlying price at expiry. This is the maximum you're going to get when you have a call option. What is the other case? The other case is the price might not go beyond the strike of 100, and it might just maybe close below 100, maybe 9080, in any case, the amount you get is zero, so either you get S minus X or zero. So maximum of these two either you would be in profit or you lose entire money you put in call option. So this is a key factor that differentiates any other asset class, right? If I buy Apple at $100 and it fell to 80, still, I have 80 in my account, right? Still, my holding is worth $80 but if I buy an Apple options call contract for $1

Speaker 1  1:26:26  
either it go like either I make money out of it, or I don't make money at all, like zero. So either if it goes above the strike, I make money, or else I don't. This is the reason the equation is maximum of s minus x, comma zero. So theoretically, the holder makes money. When we say holder, whoever is holding the call option, if the stock goes above the strike, let's see it graphically. So this is the payoff of a call option. I'm also going to tell you why this is payoff, not profit and loss, but right now, if you buy a call option at a strike of $100 so strike tells you the strike price at which you're buying. If it is 100 there are different different contracts, right? You have a contract with a strike of 195 9080, like that. And you have other strike prices as well, if for any reason, you decided to buy a contract at $100 which is which has a strike price of $100 only. If it expires above 100 you're going to make money. For example, if it closes at 105 the difference between 101 05 is your payoff. If it closes at 140 which is payoff of 40 because you bought a contract with a strike of 100, it expired at 140, so the difference is $40 that is your payoff. But the key point here is $40 is not your profit. The reason is for you to buy a options contract that has a strike of $100 you need to pay a premium. Let's say if you paid a premium of $2 then instead of getting $40 you get $38 as your profit, your payoff is 40 but in the payoff, you subtract the premium you paid, and then you get the profit and loss. So don't confuse this with profit and loss. This is just the payoff theoretical chart that tells you what can you expect to be paid off by holding this contract is what it answers you. The same thing with put. Also put is a contract to you which pays you when the price actually falls. So for that very reason, if the stock price or underlying price is below the strike, you start making money. So this is the reason, either it falls and you make money, or it doesn't. If it goes up, you don't make money at all. So you lose your entire premium, or you don't get any payoff. If you actually pick a contract that is not falling, right? So put options are generally bought when they expect the underlying price to fall. For that very reason, the holder makes money if the stock goes below the strike. But it's not just about the stock. For any of the underlying you hold. If it falls, then you make money with put and how much money you make, it depends on where you entered. If your strike price is 100, then this is your payoff diagram. So as long as it falls below 100, your payoff is going to be positive. If it is goes above 100, you don't have a payoff at all. Again, as I said, payoff is not profit and loss profit, your premium charges are costs for you, right? So for example, if you paid $2 you will not taking money, start making money. After 100 on, you would start making money below 98 because $2 is what you paid for premium. But to keep it simple and theoretical, it's all about payoff at the theoretical level. Because when we talk about. Put profit and loss, then your premium charges, etc, comes in. But now what is this, right? So what exactly happened here is to keep it in a trader term, you have a call option that tells you a directional bit, right? If the stock goes above 100, you're making money. A put option tells you if the stock goes below 100, you make money, given both are bought at a strike of 100. But when it comes to straddle, straddle is, in very interesting case, a foundation of volatility trading which gives you an advantage. See, what if you don't know where the stock goes. Simple, tomorrow there are earnings released that are going to happen, and you have no idea whether the earnings could be positive or negative, because even in the market, some of the analysts are saying that particular stock, ABC, is going to release a positive earning report, and half of the analysts are saying negative earnings report.

Speaker 1  1:31:02  
So it's very uncertain in what direction it goes. And if you are trading that stock, you don't know what to do, but it's certain that it will go in some direction, right? There is lots of uncertainties in the market that you know uncertainty is the reason why you have volatility, right? There are 100 reasons why you have volatility that we're going to discuss, but uncertainty is the core factor that increases volatility. Volatility is nothing but not moving in a single straight line. Like, for example, if I had stock had to go from 100 to 120 it might fall from 100 to 80, then again, go to 110 then again, go to 70, and then go to 120 so it is a very volatile scenario that at least you are certain about. In such scenarios, you can have this beautiful strategy, which is straddle, or it's a combination of a call and put, instead of breaking your heads whether to buy a call or buy a put. Why don't you buy both? If you buy both, the payoff says, If a stock goes above 100, you make money. If a stock goes below 100, you make money. But it looks unreal, because now it feels like whatever happens to stock, you make money, but you don't make money in only one scenario, if stock never moves, because you're not thinking about direction now you're thinking about volatility. You're saying there would be an extreme move in either direction. You don't know what direction if you're banking on that extreme nature of that move, right? But what happens tomorrow? The stock again, or at expiry, you bought that $100 contract, $100 strike contract, and the contract expired exactly at 100 in such case, you don't make money. Now, when it comes to reality, this looks too good to be true, because we are talking about payoff. We are not talking about profit and loss, because it's actually a bit costly to buy at the money call and put it's going to cost you compared to auto, the money is going to cost you a lot of premium. So let's say it costs you $10 premium. So in such case, you would only make profit if it goes above 110 and you would only make profit if it falls below 90, if either of the scenarios happens, you start making profit, you would not get any money, or you would not make profit. If it stays below one, $10 and $90 given you spent $10 to buy a put and buy a call. So this is the underlying idea behind a straddle. The key points here is, when you're talking about a straddle, you only deal with at the money contracts. So if yet underlying price is at $100 you try to buy options contract with strike price at $100 and you pay premium to buy those. Whenever you are buying an options contract you pay premium. So this is about straddle. But again, consider this as a very initial introduction to straddle, because there are many nuances when it comes to volatility trading. Because see, just because you don't know where the stock would go, you shouldn't actually go and buy straddle, but only when you actually understand what is the current volatility, what could be the future volatility? And if you believe volatility is going to be high only, then you need to actually deploy a straddle. Or else, every time it looks like anytime you can have a straddle right at any place. Because theoretically, if you think about it, you can't 100% predict where the strike could go. So theoretically, it feels like at any price, you can actually deploy straddle, but no, because it comes with a cost. In fact, this is costly because you're buying two contracts, so your profit should actually be above the price of both contracts. But let's just stick to the theory of straddle. I mean, let's understand, like, why we are at. Actually trading volatility. So what exactly are we trying to do is see this

Speaker 1  1:35:06  
is not a risk free strategy. First of all, because you might believe there is no risk, but directional risk is not there. I agree, depends on what irrespect Of what direction it goes. You can actually have a positive payoff, but risk when it comes to volatility, is still there. If the market is not volatile, if volatility drops, if market struck in a range, you don't make money in it. So essentially, what we are doing with it is you are considering the unpredictable nature of returns. Essentially, standard deviation of returns is what we are using to define volatility. But I must tell you, volatility is not standard deviation of returns, but we are using standard deviation of returns is a measure of volatility, or a proxy for volatility, because here understanding the exact value of volatility is not the key, but understanding the change in volatility is the key. You are not making money here in straddle or any volatility trading at a basic level, you are not making money by exactly measuring volatility? No, that's not what we are aiming for. We are making money by predicting the change in volatility, right? If you are able to predict by any kind of measurement, there are different ways to measure volatility. There is a separate lecture on it, along with Python notebooks and methodologies that we are going to have in OTS four, but at a ideal level, you should understand volatility. We are not here to exactly measure volatility, but we are here to find scenarios where the volatility will greatly shift if you could find that great shift in volatility. For example, currently markets are pretty, I'm giving you as an example, if markets are pretty calm now any direction, maybe they're with strong momentum, either they're going up or going down. Volatility is very low, fine. But then there was some news, there was some geopolitical event, or some war announcement happened. Then you expect volatility or some uncertainty. Is there? Maybe people are waiting for that one report to decide whether to buy yourself. That increases volatility. That tells you that the volatility is going to shift from a calm phase to an extreme, uncertain phase. In that scenario, you deploy shadow. So keeping these in mind, what exactly is volatility is the natural question we get right? Because if I tell you, if I tell you hot, if I tell you cold, at least with our human senses, we can intuitively understand something, right if you don't feel it exactly now. But when I say volatility, how do we exactly kind of drifted into your intuition that you need to understand. So let's take this I'm sorry, let's take this example. This year, 2021 was taken because it's a specific case where it has lots of learning points here. In fact, as we move forward, also, we are going to go back to 2021 again and again, because there are lots of trading opportunities here. You might think it's pretty straightforward. You buy at 370 and you buy at 470 you sell at 470 and there is a profitability here. But that's not what we are here for. We are here for for more nuanced study that helps our options trading, which is a peak into volatility. So I know it's just an uptrend. It's fairly simple. Anybody can categorize this as an uptrend. But if you see the trend to from 370 to three, 470, didn't happen as a tangential line or a straight line, right? You can see there are lots there is lots of volatility here. Market went up. See, if you see, from 380 it fell to 370 then again, it went to 390 from there, it fell as close as 372

Speaker 1  1:39:10  
then again, it like that. It went to 450 from 450 it fell to 430 So imagine this is not a extremely good up move. This is a move, but still, there is lots of volatility in it. But to a human eye, it's actually very difficult to kind of understand what we are talking about when we are talking about volatility. For that reason, we need to split this into two parts. And this particular time series, you see, you need to split it into maybe mean returns, and whatever this wiggles you see on the screen. So that's what we are going to do, essentially, if you are only talking about returns, right? Let's say I'm talking about average returns, or average price, average price of the contract. This is how it looks, see and going back, this is the. A fundamental price series. But if I just take an average right, if I take, let's say, 30 day moving average, or any kind of average, I can come up with some similar straight line, and I can divide it into wiggles also. So I'm just splitting this first time series into two parts, one, the returns and second the volatility. So volatility, how am I measuring it? I'm just taking standard deviation of returns, just to understand how deviated the returns are from the average. And this is how it is. So you see the returns, if you see, take zero as an average, the returns are falling and then going above the average, again falling. And you see how deviated these are. These are extremely volatile here. That's why that was taken as an example. You can do this study for any year, for any contract, but you can clearly see there is a volatility here. Here, you can see there is an extreme volatility, because the volatility values goes as far as 20 here, there are 10. Then again, this is a high volatile phase compared to this. You can do n number of studies here. In fact, we will do more structured studies on volatility as we move forward. But at a fundamental level, you need to understand there is no technical way to define this vehicle. I know we are saying volatility, but standard deviation of returns might not be the right way to quantify volatility, but it's a way to represent volatility. Right mathematically, you can't put a number to it, but at least if I start considering standard deviation of returns to represent volatility, I can categorize this as a low volatile phase. This has a high volatile phase, just because the numbers are higher, that is the important part we need. So because imagine you're trading in October 2021, I can clearly understand, if I look back, I know the current volatility values are higher than what is there in Jan, Feb, right. So I can say, compared to January or February, my October market is in a high, volatile phase. That is the information we need to structure our trading strategies as we move forward. So I'm just going back to the equation where, like the slide, where we had all this discussion. So how are we going to trade this spy, right? So since ECD and index, you can actually buy futures. I mean, ideally, if you are given this as an exercise, you are given historical data, and you were asked to strategize how to make money out of this move. You could have said, buy it, buy it at 370 hold it for an year and sell it at 400 it's pretty straightforward, but in reality, we don't know that it would have moved like this, right? It's very difficult to predict that it's going to go from 370 to 470 but it's fairly simply, simpler compared to prediction of price. It's fairly easy to compare prediction of volatility. There are characteristics of volatility that actually facilitate this is next to prediction that, again, that is also part of what is for. But as a trader, you need to understand anytime series has two components it. There would be a trend means at what direction it is moving, and there would be variability of returns when it comes to mean. So the same thing we discussed, if you see the mean, if you see what is the average price, this gives you a trend. If you just plot in any average you will, you will easily understand what direction, what trend the stock is moving. But in addition to that, you need to understand how variable the prices are from the mean, this is where the entire detail is, and this is where the money making opportunity is when it comes to options. In fact, not only just money making, unless you really understand how the volatility is there for an underlying contract, it's very difficult to trade options, because it's people. If somebody predicted this up move in average price, you can't just buy a call option and call it a day, because there is an expiry limit for each contract. There is volatility, there is delta, there are other Greeks that impacts. So your main understanding of options comes when you start looking at volatility. But how will you look at these what you're going to learn as we move forward, but it should. The key takeaway here is volatility is one aspect. As an options trader, you're going to track day in and day out, and you're going to have an opinion on it. Just because we're tracking doesn't help us, even whether you have a good or bad prediction, you should start making predictions of volatility, because as a trader, you would have, you would have seen many news articles, or even in online people are trying to predict prices. Right? That is a day in and day out activity for anybody in this field. People hear different different stocks with different different stock predictions. But when you enter the space of options. Is when you start talking to options traders. Very rarely. They talk about where the call option will go. They will only talk about volatility. They say the markets are extremely volatile. They say the delta is so and so. You might hear words like, delta is 100, or they might say Vega. They might say data. So that is the space you should start actually looking for when you're talking about options, and that's where we are leading to but your journey starts by looking at volatility, but how you look at how you measure it, that is a case for study, and we move forward.

Speaker 1  1:45:36  
So let's dig deep into volatility. Whenever I say volatility, please understand there is no right method to study in the sense categorize volatility. You have many methods. Forecast volatility, you have many methods. But measuring volatility, there is no right method or a wrong method. It's just a number. You're putting it for volatility, right? So let's see what kind of comparative study we would do, and slowly, we will lean into the more practical ones. But at a basic level, it is an observation that when it comes to stocks or indices, whatever you see on screen, this is given in a context of stocks or indices. Equity indices, they are negatively correlated to returns. Now, what does it mean? Right? It means, if you see a bull market, or if you see a stock that is going up, you see a drop in volatility, but if you see a stock that is falling, if you see a bear market, if a stock is crashing, you see increased levels of volatility. Is there a theoretical backing for it? That's not what it is the discussion here, this is a statistical observation, because you're not getting the definition of volatility from a mathematical theory. Here, you use standard deviation of returns, or any other methods, and do a simple correlation study, and you will realize the stock is going up, the volatility is going to fall. There are few examples that we're going to see. So for example, this particular year, 2021 in this year, on an average, the daily returns of SMP 500 was 0.1 it is a average. It's just to take daily returns of every day of 2021 and if you take an average, you get 0.1 but if you see the volatility, it is 0.8 now what does it tell you? It tells you, in addition to returns, the range of volatility is high, so in a way mathematically, what it means is just over the day, you might see returns, let's say plus 1% to minus 1% between plus 1% and minus 1% you can see any kind of a return, but if you see on an average, the diary return is 0.1 that means this year is an extremely volatile year, so compared to 0.1 imagine 0.1 is your average return, but when you actually see the chart, wait at the close of the day, then it is showing you minus 1% that doesn't tell you your predictions are wrong. No, your prediction is right. Your average return will come to 0.1 as a year closes, but within the day, within the year daily, you see extreme changes in this daily return. It could be plus one or minus one, but on an average, it is 0.1 that is how volatility impacts any kind of a decision you're taking with predictions, some might say a stock will go from 100 to 120 the next question you're going to ask is how volatile the market could be, or how volatile your prediction could be. If they say 20% then you have more idea. For example here, I got 0.8% and then that this actually tells me how deviated this prediction would be. Let me give you more examples on the same context. If you see this chart, this VX, not sure any How many of you know VX is an index that tells you how volatile the SNP find it is. So this is actually very easy. You can find it. Let me actually show you CBOE VX. So if you search for CBOE VX, that essentially gives you US markets VIX. And now you can see it is at 16, right? So if you go to five years, it will you can actually have an idea. See, for example, mid of 2025, it is extreme volatility. Then if you go to maximum, then you will understand how extreme the volatile phases are. And you see during covid, also, there is extreme volatility. So VIX is nothing but an index that tells you how volatile SMB 500 is, okay, so if you do a correlation study of vix with. SNP 500 returns. You get this particular graph. This essentially tells you the SNP 500 and weeks are negatively correlated. So whenever you see an extreme drop in SNP 500

Speaker 1  1:50:11  
you see the weeks is high, but whenever there is a positive up move in SNP 500 you see the volatility is controlled. So this is the relation, and it's like daily, it is minus 0.7 weekly, also it is minus 0.771 and monthly, also about zero points minus 0.7 so essentially, there is a negative correlation across all time frames with returns and volatility. Now how is it going to help you? This is the theory you should know when you are actually creating models or event driven strategies on volatility, because the s and p5 100 or any underlying assets returns are very important for you. You study its price chart on top of it, you study its volatility and get a holistic idea of what phase it is in. Is it in an extreme volatile phase? Then, okay, then what is happening with s and p5? 100? No, sometimes what happens? Market will be falling, but volatility also will be low. That is a weird case, right? Then you would be would understand that, okay, the market is going to some kind of a phase which is not normal, because our statistics shows it's 0.7 correlation is pretty high correlation. So an ideal scenario would be, if the market is falling, volatility also should be extremely high. If that's not the case, then you go in the high history and see how many times it happened. And then after this, what kind of phase. See, I'm just giving you an idea. Understanding this will give you more ideas to get into your trading strategies. Now that is for SMP 500 right? But that is not the same for other assets. So that kind of a high correlation is only seen in equity indices. But when it comes to commodities, it is different, and not only in commodities, even in commodities, for energy commodities, it is negative when you go to gold, silver, or these kind of precious metals, then it is positive, because different different aspects contribute to this volatility, right? Any price change has few factors, and any volatility change has few factors. When you want to compare gold with SNB 500 it is not a fair comparison, because the drivers of gold and SNP 500 are different. In fact, most of the times you see different phases, you see negative correlation between gold and SNP 500 also, because gold is a safe haven. So for that reason, you see a positive correlation here. But whatever contract you are studying, it should be a habit for you to kind of track these numbers, how correlated the volatility and returns are. That gives you different market results. Because as you move forward, it's not just bull and bear, right? It's you should actually get out of this phase of just managing or understanding the market in terms of bull phase and bear phase, you should actually go in depth and study resigns. You need to define your resigns if the correlation of volatility and returns are point five, between zero to point five that is a resign, between positive 0.5 to one that is a resign, again negative side, also between minus point five to minus one that is a resign. So if you define your market into different resigns like that, and then you can practice your strategies right? If I have a volatility strategy, and I studied in all four designs, and it tells me, whenever the correlation is between point five minus point five and minus one, you have higher probability of profits, then I would invest more money in those resign. This is the level with options contracts and volatility trading will puts you in. It makes you more informed, and it makes you kind of have a more control on the market. If you don't do it, if you just stick to directionality, and if you believe stock ABC goes up and you buy the call, if the trade didn't work. You don't know why it didn't work, but if you start looking at volatility, then it will give you a better dimensionality, for you better understanding of why a trade worked and why a trade did not work. And the same thing, you don't need to stop at that. In fact, this chart is very, very important, because essentially, this tells you how we are going to move forward. A title might be very confusing, wall and wall of wall, right? So essentially, what it says is you're comparing volatility with volatility of volatility. So if somebody is from physics, you would know there is speed, there is velocity, there is acceleration, right?

Speaker 1  1:54:39  
The sense it's I'm not talking about volatility. I'm talking about volatility of volatility. That means how DV how deviated volatility values are. So initially, volatility talks about how deviated your prices are. Now I'm talking about how. Asked they are deviating. So if for that, I'm taking volatility on volatility. So what it says is, if I have volatility on volatility on x axis and if I have volatility on y axis, that tells me on what phases of volatility I see extreme shifts in volatility. Let me give you an example. So here it's like couple of decades or three decades. I guess this is three decades of data. This is just volatility data, okay? This just just fixed data, or 30 day volatility of SNP data. This tells me what are the high volatile phases, what are the low volatile phases? Right? If this value is low, this is low volatile phase. If the value is high, this is high volatile phase. But if I could go back to our wall and wall of wall chart, this has a correlation of 0.8 this tells me when the volatility is high, my volatility on volatility is high. These are positively correlated. What it means is, whenever you have an extreme volatility, you see a certain shift in volatility. There are high chances that the volatility will change. When the volatility is high, the same thing is senior. Whenever there is an extreme volatility, you see a shut and drop. Whenever there is an extremely low volatility, also you see a shift. But extreme high volatility, you have extremely high shifts. See if I had to put it in another way, since volatility is positively correlated to change in volatility. Whenever there is an extremely high volatility, you see an extreme change in volatility. Whenever you have low volatility, you don't see that extreme change. So when the volatility is low, your change is going to be very less. When the volatility is high, your change is going to be very high. What does it mean is, how does it help you as a trader? Is, if the market is in low volatile phase, there are very less chances that suddenly the volatility is going to go up. But when the market is in high volatile phase, there are high chances the volatility is going to crash. So this is the level at which we need to get an intuition of volatility, because, as a trader, day in and day out, should properly understand. Let's see what is it right now, right? So if I see current volatility, let's take one year volatility value. So one year volatility value, if I see Currently, it is at 15, right? So within this year, currently, it is in low volatile phase. So in the low volatile phase, I can safely say that the volatility will not suddenly raise up, suddenly go up. There are very less chances for the market to be extremely volatile as we move forward. But if you had asked me in this phase or this times in April, definitely, I can bet on crash in volatility. So this is where one of my trading opportunities is. Since I'm expecting a drop in volatility, I can have some strategies. Maybe I can sell a straddle, or I can have other strategies. Also. Strategies is another discussion, but at least you should have a view, even if it is wrong. Let's figure out why it is wrong and improve knowledge that should be the attitude.

Speaker 1  1:58:27  
So let's let me actually spend some time on it. There is one more behavior. Actually, there are four important characteristics of volatility. But as of now, for a human eye, it's very easy to understand. This is a mean reverting series that means, whenever it goes above the mean, it comes back to mean, and then it goes below the mean, it comes back to mean again. So this is a pretty strong mean reverting series that is one of the qualities of volatility. So whenever you're dealing with high volatile phase, you can certainly bank that it will come back to mean. So you can bank on a crash of volatility with a controlled study. Basically, it's not a blanket statement that you can pass on every phase, but right because right now you have seen, if the volatility is extremely low, it should go back to mean, but it will not suddenly go back to mean. But if it is extremely high, there are high chances the crashes are evident. So key takeaway here is the volatility is in positive correlation to change in volatility negative correlation to the returns of SMB 500 or any kind of equity index. And the third one is volatility is a mean reverting series. These are the fundamental understandings that explains or helps us to create combinations of calls and puts. I know it's very easy people call strategies, straddle, strangle, etc, but technically they are not strategies. They are combinations of calls and puts, when somebody says. Strategy, just like one of the students asked, it's not about entering it's about handling the trade. Also it's about talking about profit, Target, stop losses. If you have your risk methodology also defined, then it is a strategy. But just because we are saying straddle, buy a call and buy a put, that's not a strategy. That's just a combination. So here also, it is a mean diverting series. So it will help you to strategize few combinations of options that essentially gives you positive payoff. So there is one more detail here, which is, see Wix is an index that's been there since 1990s Okay, so it's been there forever, like essentially, just to understand how volatile the markets are, but it only, I think, for the past decade, only people are actually actively,

Speaker 1  2:00:55  
actively trading Wix. It's been there before also, but the tradable contracts, the options contracts or futures contracts are not there from ever since the beginning. That's why you see average volatility in 2017 is 11.1 but if you see historically, it the average of 1999 in 1999 it is 24.4 essentially, what I'm trying to say is, if you're comparing volatility, and want to define whether the current market is extremely volatile or low volatile. I'll go I'll show you an example. Also don't go back and compare with maximum values. That essentially what I want to tell you. So pick a period and study within the period, because in the past, if you see extreme past and pick 80 as your value, everything looks like a lower Lidl phase for you. So just pick a period, let's say one year, and within the period, just to try to judge what are, what is the phase we are in? We are definitely in a low, volatile phase. But don't go and pick all the data points you have, because once the VIX contract started to trade, its behavior changed. Because, if it is a mathematical just series that calculates volatility, it would show some characteristics, but when exchanges started deploying vix futures, fixed options, then its value also changed for that very reason. Just understand this. Maybe take five years of volatility, three years of volatility, and categorize your levels, but not don't take the entire series, because its behavior has changed. So just to give you a more detail of what is this mean reversion characteristic, right? So essentially, not sure how many of you guys have already gone through econometrics, but essentially from 1990 if we study the daily correlation between VIX, essentially how the auto correlation is, what auto correlation is is, if yesterday is positive, what is today is what auto correlation is. Or, I must say, in a more intuitive sense, how would your yesterday returns impact today returns so if both are highly auto correlated, if it is an extremely positive value, that means if yesterday is a positive value, today also would be highly positive value. If it is a negative auto correlated, that means if stock went up yesterday, today, it would have fallen so similarly, if you do that study in Wix, this is just to don't need to remember these numbers, but just to understand the mean reversion behavior for any stock. I think it's an interesting study you could do. There are minor algorithms also people created on this autocorrelation, which is a simple statistical thing. You find autocorrelation of daily values, weekly values, monthly values, just to understand how this mean diversion is. So if I say daily autocorrelation right, its value is very it's minus definitely the VIX values are negatively correlated. But it is a very small number. It essentially tells me, comparatively weekly there is a more. There is more mean diversion, weekly and monthly compared to daily. That means, if I go go to the previous chat, any chart, if you see right, two down 17, also, there is a mean, it goes away from mean and comes back to mean, again, away from mean comes back to mean. So if you see for a stock, stock, I will just give you that comparison. Also for you, if I add a moving average, right? Let me add a moving average, any kind of a moving average. See, my moving averages are all actually hugging the prices. If the prices are trending up, my moving averages are also trending up. But when it comes to VIX, VIX is not a trending series. It's a pure mean reverting series. So my average would stay constant, and my vix will go above average, come back to mean, and then go below mean, and then come back to mean. So it is a proper mean reverting series. If I see it, 1999 also the same behavior we can see. And even if you. See not only one year, right? Even if you actually see this chart, if you could have a mean of it, you could clearly understand the mean would be about 25 or something. You clearly understand the prices are going below mean, above mean, and then it's a mean diverting series with this in mind, if you could ask. So if I'm saying mean diverting, should I if today is positive weeks, tomorrow, would it be negative weeks? Or should I wait for a weekly to get this main

Speaker 1  2:05:28  
reversion behavior to be more evident? Or should I be monthly? That is the question. The answer is, there is a negative correlate, autocorrelation, daily, but it is weak, so you don't need to kind of strategies, anything for daily weeks trading, but if you are dealing with weekly or monthly volatility analysis, then there is more negative auto correlation and more chances here. What this number says is, if you take 100 Days, 51% of the trading days are positive, 49% are negative. So this is not that statistically significant, but if you see monthly rate, 60% of the months have negative, I must say, if 60% are positive out of 10 months, if six months are positive, four months are negative, and autocorrelation is also comparatively high. So the key takeaway from here is this is just a proof that Wix has a main reversion capability that holds good in all time frames. Some might be do analyzing daily chart, some might be analyzing weekly, monthly but it is more evident when you have higher Time Frame chat. So I've been seeing daily chat, but if you go for a monthly chart or a weekly chart, then you would see more mean reversion behavior, quite evident. But as I said, don't need to worry about these numbers. This is just a study. It changes as you change the time period, but the behavior stays the same. But how we are going to put it in use is what we are going to learn as we move forward.

Speaker 1  2:07:02  
So so far we have been talking about volatility, but this is where we go more in depth. As I said, OTs two will introduce you ODS two and part of OTS three. Also we introduce you to all the terminology, the ways to think, and also nuances of volatility trading. I know you might feel after this lecture, you might not go and start trading. That is not possible. Maybe after OTS four, you might start thinking about strategizing your trade. But as we move forward from one to two, two to three, three to four, it would more lean into more practice, more Python notebooks, or more strategy discussion. But this is important, because unless you intuitively understand the elements that is foundation of the trading, it's very It's futile to directly go for strategies. That is the reason we are taking time to get these nuances right. One more nuance, I think this is a common question I would get in option strategies. Is like options lectures, is, people will ask, what is the difference between historical volatility implied volatility? Some might also ask, what realized volatility is. But essentially, we are going to stick to historical and implied for this class, because let's keep it simple, but there is a little bit of nuance when you're talking about real about realized volatility. People directly in. People interchangeably use historical volatility with realized but keep the thought aside as of now, let's understand what implied volatility is, because this is a very important metric we are going to measure as we move forward, and this is a heart of black souls model, or any kind of volatility based models. But as a name says, historical volatility is nothing but volatility in the past, right? But that's not an important part here. The important part is this talks about underlying asset. Whenever you're talking about historical volatility, the volatility of the underlying Saeed. What it means if I am talking about stock a apple, and if somebody asked me, What is the volatility of the stock apple today? Essentially, they are asking you historical volatility only because when I'm talking about today, today's close, the market has already closed, right? I'm not talking about tomorrow, so I only take historical prices. Either you take standard deviation of returns to measure volatility, or either you use any kind of quantitative methodology, but you are essentially calculating historical volatility. But when we talk about implied volatility, it is completely different. I mean, the ideology is completely different. The very first thing is, when you talk about implied volatility, you no longer talk about underlying asset. You no longer talk about Hazim. Apple. You talk about options contract of Apple. So volatility, historical volatility, or volatility, is about underlying instrument, but implied volatility is about the options contract of those underlying and as the name suggests, it is implied, implied in the sense you're talking about future volatility. So you're not talking about history, you're talking about future this is a main element in any kind of options trading model. In the context of options, whenever we say volatility, we are talking about implied volatility. That is an important distinction. You should know, because as we move forward, and even in market architect market literature on options, they might say volatility, but they don't mean anything about underlying instrument, or they don't mean anything about history. They always mean the expected volatility experienced by the option contract, and this implied volatility is defined by you and me. This is what market decides. Anybody who is taking options positions are the key players who define this implied volatility. The value of implied volatility comes from what price people are buying the option, what price people are selling the option. It has nothing to do with what underlying instrument had done in the past. It has everything to do with what market is expecting the underlying instrument, also the options instruments to behave like. So this is, again, as I said, this is just an introduction for you, just to give an intuition. As we move forward, we get more into this, and this is an important concept. Now, there is one more detail you see on screen, which says, to calculate volatility, we need to put into BSM model to get that number. But I think it would be too much of a stretch to discuss about this at this moment. But next lecture complete, OTs three is on this particular part. What is three is about options pricing in Greeks, where 70% of the time we are going to talk about different types of volatilities, different phases of volatilities. What are pricing models and what are inputs outputs? How are you going to use those pricing models to get your Greeks? I would actually park this for a detailed discussion for the next class, because right now, let's just stick to basics and get the intuition and understanding right. But key takeaway is historical volatility is backward looking. Implied volatility is forward looking. See there are, there are actually very few metrics in entire finance that are going to give you an idea of what is going to happen in future. I know you must say there are these

Speaker 1  2:12:47  
forward looking econometric values. Maybe people will talk about what they're expecting the employability be, what they're expecting the GDP to be, but those are from our economists right. Implied volatility is very special, because that is not coming from any mathematical model, but essentially that is defined by trader activity. If a trader buys at higher premium, you see lots of open interest at higher premium, or I must say, let me actually tone down the technicalities. If you see more demand and more premium for a call option that directly affects your implied volatility, because if people believe the volatility is going to be high in the future, now, they are going to buy those options contract to ensure their positions, and it increase the demand of that contract, in turn, increasing the premium. So in a way, or the straightforward way, any people expect the market to be volatile, you definitely see a rise in premium. And similar case, the other way, also it works, but exactly in it, in it actually quantify it, but implied is a forward looking metric that very few econometrics or very few trading level metrics actually going to give you what happens in the future, or it's like a market survey right now. How do you know what market is thinking about volatility? You just look at IV change, how the IV is changing. In fact, you go beyond study something called volatility surface. You would have heard volatility smile term structure. These are all the foundations of all the strategies we are going to use. So this is a way for me to discuss implied volatility. But don't worry if something doesn't actually gel well with the logics in your brain, because again and again. We are going to discuss this in different functionalities, right in different dimensions. We are going to discuss the same concept across OTs, three and four also, in fact, five and six. Also, it will have but by then, you will be pretty confident about IV. But as a beginner to understand what an IV is, our IV surface is, i. Surface is a three dimensional plot. Essentially tells you, okay, maybe I will start like this. When I talk about volatility of Apple, there would be single number, right? If I'm talking about daily volatility or Apple, how many numbers it will have? It will have a single number. Let me go back to our charts. Let's go to Apple. Here, if I am talking about volatility of Apple, I have my prices. I can find returns, standard deviation of returns. I get a single value. But when I come to options, right options chain, let me show you how an option

Unknown Speaker  2:15:45  
chain would look like. It's actually not easy for anybody to understand this. Let me SPX options chain.

Speaker 1  2:16:00  
I just want to show you a simple way to understand options chain. Okay, check this. I will give you a much simpler example. If I am trading SNP 500 it's simple. I have a single line chart. I go to Google, I find SNP 500 chart, and I get a single line chart right if I want to, if I believe SNP 500 will go up I buy SNP 500 index, maybe I will buy SNP 500 futures. But when I come to options I have, if I want to buy SNP 500 if I have to buy call, see how many call options I have, because at every strike price, I have a call option. At a different, different strike prices, have a call option. So this is how it is when you're dealing with price and when you're dealing with options. If I had to extend this particular observation, if I'm talking about volatility of SNP, handed simple, I take the daily prices of SNP, find it maybe. I take these prices, find the standard deviation of returns. I get single volatility value. But when I go and try to calculate volatility, when I'm talking about options, it is implied volatility. How would I get it right? I have these many contracts. So here you could see implied volatility at the money so for the at the money contract, implied volatility is 7.52 and you see for different strike prices, I have different IV values. But keep in mind all these are all these different contracts are for a single expiry. These are three days to expiry, but there are different expiry contracts also. There are contracts that expire in Feb. There are contracts that expire in March also. So the key takeaway here is there is no single IV value for you in options. The IV value changes as the strike changes, and the IV value changes as the expiration of the contract changes. For that very reason, whenever you are dealing with implied volatility, there is no single value in options. There is an IV surface. So this is a three dimensional plot that tells you how the implied volatility changes as the strike changes. And another dimension is the time to expiry. So depending on the number of days to expire, depending on what strike price contract you're dealing with, you have different IV values. For example, you could see at 100, let's say that it is trading at 100, at the money contract has lowest IV compared to all given for a specific days to expire that you wouldn't see here, because we're just keeping it simple. It's a three dimensional plot, but we are only talking about strike versus IV. But the key takeaway here is, if there is a discussion of volatility, it's not about IV value. It's about what contract are you dealing with? If you're dealing with 100 strike price contract, its IV would be different compared to 90 strike price contract, right? So that is the key takeaway, but how to put it in use? That is a discussion for another class. But the fundamental idea is volatility. There is no independent study of volatility. You always need to club it with something. If I plot IV with respect to strike, it is called as a smile or a skew. You would have heard the term volatility smile, volatility skew. There is also a term called smug, volatility smirk, depending on the shape, it looks like a smile, right? Because of that, you got it, but sometimes you might not get this u curve. It might look like this. It might look like an inverted U. So depending on the shape of this volatility curve, which strategy is the strategies, which strategies, where to. Buy a call option, where to buy a put option, what combination of a call and put with respect to strike similarly, instead of plotting it or x axis instead of strike, if you use time like we were talking about time to expiry, right? Then you get something called term structure. So there are people who study term structure, even we will do as we move forward, where, depending on how many days to expiry for the contract is, you will study the volatility. There is a beautiful relationship between volatility and term structure and strike also, sorry, so more details we will discuss in OTS three, when we actually discuss a Greek called Vega that tells you how the premium is changing with respect to volatility. So when, like, for example,

Speaker 1  2:20:52  
if you want to go buy a call option, because you think the stock would go up, but in this class, you understood, okay, there is something called volatility. I should also consider it. But how do you consider it? Right? Theoretically, at least now you heard you need to consider volatility also when you go by a call option. But how do you do it? How do you do it is what Greek answers you. At least Greeks quantify you. It tells you what is the value of that volatility factor, but still, you didn't get an answer. If, let's say Vega is 2% then what will you do with that number? Right? Then you will actually compare that number across the strikes. For example, this is 100, right? H 100, you get 0.2 that doesn't mean anything unless you know all the values from 9200 and then only you know this is the lowest volatility you have, and it will actually give you a deciding factor whether to buy 100 or one time. So these are all the places this is going to be used. I know at this moment, it might be over information for you, but at a practical level, if you want to buy an options contract at, let's say, volatility 0.2 then this is going to help you whether you're buying at a lower volatility or higher volatility. Similarly, instead of trike, if you have a plot with respect to the time, the days to expiry or expiry date, then you would have different interpretations. So those interpretations are nuances, not now, those are part for Greeks discussion. When we are talking about Greeks at that time, you're going to discuss this more in more detail. But as of now, the key takeaway here is, if you want to study implied volatility, don't make a mistake of may just going into Google or going into any of the system and just noting on this value. This only belongs to at the money contract, and only to the expiry. Day, three days expiry. If it is 10 days expiry, this would change. If it is not at the money contract, if it is somewhat, let's say 6895, you could definitely see it change, right? So this is the key takeaway here. Implied volatility is not a single value. It changes depending on what contract you're dealing with. But now is an interesting discussion. What is the reason for a smile, right? I think we'll take a break here, because there are too many concepts that maybe within last one hour you were introduced to so let's take a break here. When we are back, we are going to discuss what are the reasons for this smile, and then we will slowly get into how are we going to use implied volatility for trading? Again, I'm telling you all the things we are going to discuss, even in the next 3040 minutes. Is again an introduction for you, to get you good foundation of understanding of this volatility, so that more practical things will happen in OTS four, five and six and a part of three, two. So let's take five minute break and keep on adding any questions you have. And let's maybe end up the class. We are going to cover all the open questions. But once we are back from this five minute break, we'll resume from the reasons of smile so.

Speaker 1  2:30:38  
Hi everyone, let's resume the class. I see there are few questions, let's take it up at the end of the class. But there is one question by Mr. Aravind. I would take this because this might impact how he is going to pursue the upcoming slides. And she's asking, would you would help if you could summarize especially implied volatility and smile curve before next session? Topics? Sure, Let's revise it a bit. So implied volatility, right as a name says, it is an implied thing, which essentially, okay, maybe I will explain it in a different way. So far we have been discussing from one angle, I will explain it to you in a different angle. Okay? So for example, as you could see on screen, there are bid ask prices of different call options, right? So for example, if I take at the money contract, 6940, it is unchanged, but still 20.40 is bid. So people want to buy this at $20 20.4 they are willing to pay 20.4 to buy this contract. Essentially, what it tells you is this is the premium they want to pay to actually buy a call option. But if you actually use Black Scholes model, I know we didn't discuss about inputs or outputs of Black Scholes, but it's there for next lecture. But even if you theoretically calculate what could be the premium, it wouldn't be 20.40 it would be different. Let's say it is $10 right? So what accounts to the diff the additional 10.4 $0 what people are trying to pay? See, theoretically, my black source model says 10, $10 is what the premium should be. But why are people actually paying 20.4 $0 in fact, this is a bid they want to sell for higher price, 20.80

Speaker 1  2:32:45  
this difference comes from what people are expecting the market to be in future, not only where this particular contract could go, which is SNP 500 also how volatile this particular contact can Be. That is implied volatility. This is the same reason. How do you calculate this implied volatility is you take the Black Scholes model, you already know the premium. We use Black Scholes model to calculate this premium, right? You put in volatility and other stuff, and you get the premium out. But since you already know the premium, if you input premium into black souls model, the output would be volatility. That is called implied volatility. To repeat, theoretically, you give different different inputs. I will tell you the list in the next class, but one of the inputs is historical volatility. You give historical volatility as an input to Black Scholes equation. The output would be the premium, but you already know the premium. So if you input premium, then if you don't give volatility, the output would be implied volatility. That means, if market is expecting 20.40 is a fair value premium of an option, then the volatility that comes out from black soul tells you what market perceives the volatility to be. That's where this all comes from. So implied volatility, in a way, it is the market implying what volatility could be, okay, so, but then what is the smile, right? So if I can see what is the right volatility value for me, for this, the volatility would be so and so, for 26935, the volatility will change because my premium changed. So for different contracts, you have different premiums, but all these contract are speaking about a single underlying, which is s and p5 100. So if I am dealing with volatility of underlying, I talk about historical volatility. It's simple. I take the daily returns and I get the standard deviation of returns to represent volatility. Represent volatility, but when I am talking in an option space, not every contract will have same volatility, as you could see, different contracts has different implied volatilities. What does it mean? Is, if you want to study volatility, you need to study by keeping all these contracts in mind. So these are strike prices. These are volatilities. If I plot this, instead of getting a line chart, I would get a surface, because not only these, you the other the other axis is the term structure. Like, how long, how long the contract will expect? Like, if it is a three day expiry, the term structure value would be three like that. There are five days, seven, day, 10 day. There are different expiries. So what this tells you is, if I only consider x axis and y axis, I get a line chart like this, which looks like a smile to me. This is where the term smile comes in. But what is a surface? If I add one more dimension, if I also include this is called as a surface plot, where you have x, y and z axis and z axis, essentially here, the another axis here is the time to expect. So what is a volatility surface? It's a play between. It's a change, like how volatility changes as the strike prices changes, as I was shown you in this particular thing as the different contracts are picked, and if you also change this day to expiry, oh, it is just one moment it's loading. So instead of weekly contracts that are expiring on 20, I have many contracts, right? If I pick this contract, you can see my implied volatility at the money change to 8.94 if I take another contract that changed to 10.87 so it is a play between the strike price, the time to expiry, and the at the money and the volatility value. So if you plot these three, then you get a surface, and it's called as a smile, because it kind of looks like a smile if you just see IV versus strike the plot, and how are we going to use it? That is for another discussion. But we are going to see there would be a scenario where you would want to pick a contract with lesser volatility. Then you go ahead and pick a contract with less strike price, lower strike price, and also depending on the contract call or a put, you would decide what expiry you need to pick. So this study is going to help you to pick the right contract, because there are hundreds of contracts out there for s and p5 100. I have different strike price contracts, I have different expiry contracts. Which one should I pick right that answer you will get once you study this IV.

Speaker 1  2:37:23  
So let's go back now to understand, why do you have a smile? Right? When I say reasons for smile, I'm talking about why an implied volatility change as the strike price change. Here you can see different strike prices has different wallet, different implied volatilities. There are many reasons for it, but first of all, you can't use Black Scholes models to kind of completely tell you why the implied volatility are changing, because there is an assumption of black souls model which is constant volatility. So again, this is discussion for the third lecture, but still, there are limitations of black source model. But theoretically, if you think, why would a volatility change as the strike price change? One of the reason is, you know, there is a relation between underlying price and volatility, right? If a stock price drops, your premium will increase. So, I mean, I must let me put it simply, if a stock price falls, if it's stock in a bare face, then its volatility is high. We already studied. There is an inverse relation between volatility and price. Similarly, implied volatility also would decrease. Sorry, would increase. Like, for example, let, let's go back here only. So as you could see the prices. There are different, different prices you could see, not this chat. Let me actually go to our chat itself. You could see, technically, speaking, for any contract there is in the money and out of the money, right? So, depending on where it is, depending on what strike price you are dealing with, as you go in the money or as you go out of the money, your particular contracts, premium will change. So this is because there is an innate relation between how the returns change and the correlation changes, right? We all already seen how volatility changes as the stock goes up or down. That is one of the factors that is not a complete explanation of why this particular surface you got, but that is one of the reasons why this smile forms. But not only that, there is a leverage effect. For example, if a stock price drops, essentially the fundamentals of the company also will change the ratios, the price to earnings ratio, the debt to equity ratio, and other ratios also will have its own effect. Similarly, people generally, this is a tendency for the traders to buy way out of the money contracts, in the sense, if you are buying at the money contracts, it's costly compared to out of the money contracts. Maybe let me see if I could show you here. So if you take 96940, this con, let me actually see what. Do we have in daily? If I could see, I just want to show a line chart, because this is actually confusing to you. Let me actually see if I could find any line chart.

Speaker 1  2:40:14  
But fine. I think this is there anyway, next lecture. But essentially, what it says is, we're going to discuss what is in the money, out of the money at the money and the beginning of 40s three. But what it essentially tells you there are people who buy cheaper options contracts, so that in future, for example, there are many contracts that you get for pennies. Okay, people believes, if I buy a contract which is extremely cheap, if something happens in the market, definitely, they can have a multi fold profit for that very reason. Whenever there is an out of the money contract, you see there is lots of demand for it, logically, like there should not have been that much demand for out of the money contract. For the people who is doing directional straight still, they buy it. But if there is an increase in premium, definitely, if you put it in your black soul, it will show you higher volatility. So these are all some of the reasons why there is a smile. There is a there is you don't have a constant volatility. This tells you why different different options contracts for the same underlying as different AV, different implied volatilities, which results in smile. Not only this, even if the expiry changes, also you have a different IV value. For example, if there is a contract that expires in within a week, that has different implied volatility compared to a contract that expires within a month, the reason is, again, if market is let's say if you market is expecting some event to impact. If market says within one week, sorry, let's say within one month, or end of this month, we are going to have an interest rate announcement, then you see more volatility in monthly contracts compared to weekly contracts. Similarly, there are different events, lines up and different different reports that could impact your underlying maybe, if you're trading commodities, let's say you're trading agri commodities, then weather is a main factor. Let's say every three months you get a weather report, or let's say there is a season change, accordingly, you will see change in implied volatility of different expiry contracts. So these are all the fundamental reasons why you see difference also. But how do you actually take advantage of this, right? See now at least you get a basic idea of implied volatility. Is not a single value. It is a it changes as the term ton changes or expiry changes. It changes as the strike prices changes. But how do you actually take advantage of this? The main key takeaway in our fundamental idea of volatility trading is your underlying contract volatility is going to be different from options volatility contract, or I must say, what happens in your underlying would always be different to what market expects. So there is always a gap between implied volatility and realized or historical volatility. So this is the gap you're trying to capture. That is where the edge is. So let me actually show you what I actually mean. So let's see this chart. This is this. I'm going to go back. I've actually skipped couple of slides, but we'll go back. But first, let's understand what this slide means. So this is related to s and p5 100, and it is for an year of 2015 because this is a very good example, where the red line shows you what is the implied volatility. Implied volatility is actually calculated using options, but market is expecting this volatility in the underlying but the blue line is the actual volatility that had happened. So since this is two, 115, we have historical values. What it shows is market always expects the underlying to be more volatile than the underlying contract itself. So imagine, for example, check this particular period where market expects extreme volatility that means the premiums are going to be extremely costly. So what if, if you sell a contract, sell an options contract, and held the expiry, definitely your premium when the market is expecting this much of volatility would be extremely high compared to the expiry. So you are selling at high price and you are buying back at low price. This is the fundamental idea of volatility trading. The gap between implied volatility and realized volatility is what you're trying to capture, and that gap is called as volatility premium, or. Or variance premium.

Speaker 1  2:45:02  
So this is the foundation aspect of the entire volatility dynamics. Whenever people are talking I know so far I told you, whenever we are talking about volatility, you're talking about volatility in sense of implied volatility, and you're going to study the implied volatility. But in addition to that, you also need to compare, what is implied volatility, what is market expecting? What exactly is happening with the current market? But there is a difficulty here, which is, whenever we are talking about implied volatility, you are talking about what is the volatility at expiry right? If I could show you the this chart, all the volatility values, all the premiums, everything are actually, actually calculated or actually decided by market, depending on the expiry date, so depending on where the market could go on Jan 20, depending on where the market could expire on Jan 20, people are bidding it. If people are bidding, let's say 20 premium. They're expecting the market to close at 6940, plus 20, right? Essentially, this is not exact calculation, but they're expecting the market to be above 6940, by Jan 20, but this is still three days away, right? Similarly, if I am comparing implied volatility with historical volatility, I don't know what would happen on Jan 20, right? I don't know what would be the volatility of the underlying contract in future. So this is where all the models we are going to use are going to help us. That's that's exactly how a lecture, three, four and five are structured. In fact, six, also, six is more Python oriented to create back tests, etc. But essentially, the whole concept is there is always a gap between what happens in the market and what people expect. This gap is what you're trying to explore. Okay, so that is called variance premium. So let's go back. Let's go back to where we started. So reasons for term structure we discussed. So when we come to volatility, trading, implied volatility is like the book is odds on game the price of bet that gets logged in. This is telling you that implied volatility is what people are expecting the market to behave like. Then the game is played or stock realizes a volatility. So if today I'm expecting John 20, market should be, should have certain kind of volatility. I would wait till 20 to realize what exactly happened to the market, because I can't foresee the future, right? So this is why there is always a mispricing. So if I bring in any student and ask him to calculate today's volatility, and if I give a same exercise, so 100 students, all 100 students will give you same number if they follow same method, of course, but they give me the same number because they know the historical values of the stock, and according to today's close, they can calculate volatility to me. But if I do the same exercise with the 100 students to predict what is the volatility on Jan 28th which is in future, I would get a distribution of values right, I would not get the same value. That's why there is always a difference between market expected volatility and the exact volatility what happens in underlying this is where our edge is, and this is where you actually have to study this. Unless you understand this, whatever bet you're going to take in options market is going to be Miss, misinformed, definitely. So for that very reason,

Speaker 1  2:48:48  
how you're going to trade, you need to find situations where we expect realized volatility be different from implied. So if you are trying to capture a gap between implied and realize, you would want to make sure first there would be a gap, and second, the gap would be extremely high. So these scenarios mathematically, there are ways to find it. We're going to explore. But for you to for you, you need to understand definitely there should be a difference between what market expects in market does that gap you need to find, and then you need to quantify that gap. If you could successfully do these two things, then you have a successful trading strategy in hand. But it's not that easy. That's why, even though so far we are talking about model based approaches, we are going to slowly lean towards event based approach. Also when it comes to OTS four, we're going to talk about what happens when there are elections, when there are earnings, when there are announcements, etc, so that we will categorically understand, okay, if there are announcements, this is how volatility is going to behave. So this is how I'm going to plan my volatility trade. When there are, let's say when there are post announcements or pre announcements. The different there is completely different scenario during announcement. And after announcement, post announcements. Sorry, pre announcement. So all these we are going to structure as event based trading, but at a model level, you will have a model. You will have an idea of how volatility trade is going to trade. So for that very reason, we are coming back to this slide where, if you have previously, there is one more observation. It's not profitable every single time. For example, here the employee is hugging realized volatility. There is not much gap. So even if you try to make those trades, it might not be profitable. But here there is extreme gap, right? There is a good gap here. So this is what you can capture. But here it is opposite here, in fact, implied volatility is less than realized. Means people did not expect the market to be as volatile as it would but apparently market was more volatile than what people expected for a few months, for three months, to be exact. So this is the playground for us. This is where we are going to deploy all our learnings and all our observation and strategically come up with an approach to decide what call option, put option combination to deploy, and then make it a strategic and as we move forward in OTS five, you're going to add hedging to it also. And we go to OTS six, we are going to back the sheet too. So that's, that's how we are going to move forward. For example, again, this is, this is, again, will be discussed in OTS three and four. But this particular variance premium, this might, I know we categorize this as an event based, but this is pretty frequent event. I mean, most of the time the market, even the market's volatility is extremely low, even the underlying contract has extreme low volatility. Even then, you can find this premium. Even in such case, market is going to expect a bit of a higher volatility than the underlying for example, if you remember this 2017 we have seen in the beginning of the lecture. Also, it is a low volatile period. It has very less volatility, but still, market is expecting a bit higher than this volatility. And in fact, there is always a gap. This is actually a very good year for volatility based trading. There is always a gap here. So just to give you a bit of an idea of how these things plays out, because it we might intuitively think when the underlying is extremely volatile, maybe people expect higher implied volatility and we get extreme variance premium.

Speaker 1  2:52:39  
But surprisingly, that's not the case. I will just slow down here, because there are many things to kind of observe here. Let's compare two things, fixed level, mixed level is nothing. But what is the underlying implied volatility, historical volatility, we just divided into different categories, and what is the variance premium? Variance premium is nothing but the difference between implied and realized volatility. What is observed is generally whenever the market is at low volatile phase, you see more variance premium. What it indicates is whenever there is a lower volatility. If I could go to the left the previous one, for example, you see the market is at lower volatility phase. But implied volatility, the market is expecting high volatility, the gap is high. The gap is called as variance premium. And whenever there is a low volatility, you see the gap is extremely high. So that's what been observed. Also, when we studied for three decades, whenever there is a low Vic, vix level, you see higher premium essentially, at a percentage level, you have more opportunities for volatility trading. That's what it is. So even now, even now, the market is at low volatility phase, right? So you definitely have variance premium opportunities when I when I talk about SLP, 500 so how are we going to deal with it? This there are a couple of slides now which talks about strategies, but I'm not sure even if I explain this now, you would get a complete intuition, because these are the strategies we dissect in the upcoming lectures. But still, let me give you a preview for you. There is this complex strategy here. I'll try to give you an explanation, but again, mathematically we'll discuss in upcoming lecture. But imagine I gave you a puzzle. For example, let me go back. I gave you this as an exercise for you, and I asked you to give me an idea. I asked, I will tell you, give me an idea to make money out of this. So if I give you enough time, then you might say, since implied volatility is always higher than realized volatility, why don't we sell options? That means, why don't we sell options at higher premium? In the sense, when the volatility is high, and buy back, or just leave it. Let's leave it at expiry, because at expiry you are going to consider lower volatility, so premium is going to be less. But on all other cases, market is expecting higher volatility. Essentially, you sell every day. You can sell the contract and leave it to expiry, because especially it might have worked very well in 2017 because there is always a gap. So this is how you come up with trading ideas. But this is not a profitable idea, even though you see good chart. I'm going to show you the chart. This is exactly what happened here. So what happened here is these specificities. Please, don't worry about it. These are the things we are going to discuss once we know the Greeks, but essentially selling 10 Delta. QQ, so you are selling a straddle for here we are taking about strangle, but we didn't discuss about strangle it. So imagine a straddle, right? But strangle is something you deal with out of the money contracts. But essentially, what's happening here is, if you could sell a volatility strategy straddle or a strangle, what if we sell every single day, every day, from 22,000 to 2010 for this one decade, every day? Why don't we just sell options? Because we have seen most of the times, the implied volatility and realized volatility, there is a gap. So to explore the gap, why don't we just go ahead and sell it at that surface level, it looks good. It looks good like it looks like you made 100k into some 700k

Speaker 1  2:56:40  
but this is no way a profitable strategy. So the detail, for example, there is another approach also. So here they are dealing with straddles. Previously, we deal with strangles. Now they dealt with straddles, selling at the money. QQ, second month straddles. I'm going to give you details of this, but at an ideal level, either you go for straddles or strangles, if you just sell them, do we actually make money? I say no, this is not a good strategy, because there is lots of drawdown in this. Here, it's not visible, but here, there is a 50% drop in your capital from 200k to not 50% but 25% gap drop. And here also from 600k it fell to 500k or less. So essentially, what is happening is, overall, it might look well for you, but it is not practical, because you need to maintain margins when there is a drop. And this is not a contract you held for one year, one decade, right? You took a monthly contract then closed it and open new monthly contract. So there is it's actually very costly, but at an ideal level, this is how you need to think. But as I said, as we move forward, we are going to see ways to improve the strategy. I mean ways to have better outcomes from this strategy. As somebody asked you, right how can we make money if we take day in and day out option positions if they are costly. So this particular strategy doesn't account for costs. Also, if you add cost, definitely it's not going to look as beautiful as it feels, but the way to approach so here, I'm only giving you an idea. As you study your volatility stats, you can come up with ideas like this. But now the question is, what are these names? Right? I'll give you what these are. But as I said, they're like, this is not for this class discussion. You may not get complete idea, but delta is a Greek that tells you how your premium is changing with respect to change in underlying price. 10 delta is something it is measuring delta, which essentially is 0.1 but you you need to pick contracts, right? Let's take this. I took add the money Q, Q, Q, because I'm dealing with straddles, I just take add the money contracts. But what is this? Q, Q, Q. This is a NASDAQ based with this particular contract has Nash deck 100 as underlying, just like SPX has SNP finalized underlying now, what is second month straddle? We talked about different expiries, right? This is an ex This is a contract that expires next month. So if you keep on doing it every month, you sell at the money contracts of buy and call for the next month. If you keep on doing it. This is how your margin will change. I mean, this or your capital will grow without considering cost. Same thing, if I go back, this is, instead of connecting at the money contracts, you are collecting contracts which has 10 Delta. But these details you don't need to know now, because here the key takeaway is, you understand what's happening at a higher level. You could come up with an idea like this, but this is no way, a final way you to trade, a final strategy. This is just a implementation. How, how deeply you need to think? This will tell you, because even though you come up with an idea, you have a good profit. This doesn't it is not actually practical. So. So now, what is a practical strategy? See, even though it looks good back to China in back test, it might look extremely good, but if you add cash, if you add adverse selection, it's not going to be profitable for you, because you're not thinking why there is a gap. You should always, especially in options trading, if you are able to theoretically understand why there is a premium only, then you can actually go and explore it. Now there comes the question, what are the days you need to trade? You need to trade the days when the premium is extremely high, when the gap is extremely high. This is where you land to a question, why does a premium exist? So the premium exists because it is of insurance, right? Like one of you actually pointed out, the complexity might come because it is a hedging contract. So all options contracts comes because they hedge their open positions. They want some insurance for them to ensure against their open positions, they pay premium, just like in real life, we pay incidence premium. People buy options contract so that they can ensure, again, extreme moments in their underlying so this is the reason premium exists, because people might always worry about a crash happening. People might always worry about a black swan event happening, for example, there might be an extreme events, right? There could be a disease like covid had happened in the past. There could be an extreme terror attack that is impacting our financial state, stage of the economy. So those things will not tell you and come right for that very reason, just like in real life, we have premiums. People also keep on buying calls and puts to hedge their positions which they had opened in other index, other assets, like, if they have Apple stock, they might buy Apple falls or them, ideally Apple puts, but depending on the position they have. But essentially, if they have long Apple, then they would buy Apple puts. For that very reason, there would always be a premium or a volatility premium always be contracts will always be traded at higher premium. So you would always get a chance to export the feeling. But you should understand and pick your cases. For example, if I am not everybody trades Apple, right? I keep on saying Apple, because I do. I do invest in Apple. But not everybody does. There are people who invest in other contracts. I know these days, lots of people made money by buying gold, and there are many spread contracts people open in oil. So essentially, if you are very good with this kind of geopolitical study and macroeconomic study, then you have a choice to pick what contract to trade as well. So in that scenario, see, for example, if I see these right, like top stocks of s and p5 100, and also oil and gold, so there is more variance premium in oil relatively if I see So, if I am a good options volatility trader, I might as well go and trade oil based options contracts. So in general, there are products that has better variance premium and lower variance premium also. So the reason why, again, we when we discuss this in detail, or in OTS four, we'll go through each contract and kind of understand also the reasons why these exist like this. So that is essentially what we are planning to cover in this lecture. But still, there are, there is few more discussions we have that deals with particular psychological aspects of trading options, because I know we generally talk about trading psychology, there are many podcasts, there are many books, and there is always a discussion on trading psychology. But the problem here is, see, this is not like any other career or any other aspect. For example, I know people who kind of relates this to a sport. It's actually right in a way. And they talk about complete discipline, they talk about training. They got talk about perseverance, which helps them in sport. And they would want traders to be also like that. They would say, even though you're losing money, even though you're disciplined, if you're losing money, keep doing it, because that kind of resemblance works in sport. So it should definitely works in trading. That is not true, because it's not an emotional game. You should definitely lean back on statistics. So the I know losing is a good opportunity in sports, because there is a chance to improve. And same thing you need to think in trading, also, just because you're continuously trading, even though you're losing, you should not develop at all unless you really sit understand why you took the trade, what didn't work, but if you have no clue of why you took the trade, then there is no scope of understanding where you can make the improvement. So for that very reason, and you should always think of ways to stay in the game. So for example, if you have a losing streak, it doesn't mean that you should stop trading. It means that take. A step back trade with lesser capital, but keep on trading, because unless you trade, you will not get that feel of marketers if you are an investor. That is a separate game. But I'm talking about traders because that is an extremely unpredictable path to take, right? And when you're talking with options, there are lots of unpredictable days involved. And we are going to discuss how we are going to deal with all unpredictable days, starting by quantifying them. We quantify the risks, and we discuss on how to deal with it. But psychologically, the whole point is, somehow you need to make up your mind to keep in the game. But strategically, if you ask me, it's not as just psychological mock up, but strategically, maybe trading with lesser capital, maybe paper trading for a while, and then coming back to the game, those are all the aspects that are going to help you as a trader. But as I said, that even though it looks all structured in a way, it also involves extreme level of rigor, right? Like, I mean, you need to understand these models, then try new models, and then write your trading journal. Understand what worked, what didn't work. But I

Speaker 1  3:06:08  
know people are emotional when they're making money, they do over trade. When they're not making money, they stop trading at all. So all these things as a beginner trader, you would have but you should understand, make a note. Try to make some take some decisions, to break out from them, and be a disciplined trader. And it all looks theoretical or a motivational speech, but these are all the things that are learned from extremely profitable traders, because at a common sense level, also, unless you know why it failed, you would never know how you could improve, isn't it? So single thing always, learn to get an edge, try to explore it. All edges are going to die within six months or a year. If it comes to algorithmic trading, it is much, much actually competitive. If we have a profitable algorithm after three months, it might not work also. But when you are leaning back on theory, like we are discussing, or we plan to discuss in next lectures. There is lots of actually, there is more confidence on theory, because if you know the theory, then you would understand what changed in the market. Markets are quite dynamic, straddle or a strangle for volatility trading. You can't just deploy every day. You need to understand different different market scenario. So common issues, I know there are common issues listed out here, but the whole point is all this stems out from inability to do understand the dynamics of market, so get those right first, and most of the common issues you see in all the traders will not affect you as much, okay, And I know there are a few cognitive behavioral theory attempts that are there here, but we can't change the market. So I know there are, there is lots of revenge trading, also that traders get involved in. But the whole point is, treat it like a business. Make your journals make the reasons for why it works, why it don't work. 100% of the times, you will not be able to know the reason it's okay, then don't trade in those market scenarios. The whole problem is us getting everything right. Sometimes market behaves unnaturally, like illogically. It will behave it happens many times. So that doesn't mean that we should go and kind of prove ourselves by taking some weird trades. No we can actually take a step back, and essentially all these slides are telling you the same thing. Understand how you're trading at different levels. See one thing that really helps, which actually EPA teaches you, is try to add as much of automation as you could because I've been See I told you I have 11 plus experiences, but not 11 experiences. I use ml or not 11 years, I used quantitative trading. So initial four years I was doing manual trading, and in fact, in first two, end of years, I didn't do anything beyond technical analysis. But then, as the career progressed, as the exploration phase started, I understood the issues with manual trading, the issues with non automated trading, because all the discussion of psychology of a trader comes in only when you put yourself on the screen and take difficult decisions, right? I know the same difficult decisions you need to take, even if you automate, but if you automate, half of the problems that we as a trader introduce ourselves will go away because the kind of over trading we do, the kind of changing of top losses, which is a common behavior, not just in options trading. It's just a common behavior when you're doing stop trading. Also we tend to over give you more weightage to profits than losses in back test, and when we are actually trading, we give more weightage to losses so and we blame ourselves for taking the trade. All these things will go away if you start automating. This is the reason I made sure in the upcoming lectures, 345, and six, we have some kind of another Pythonic approach that was added. In fact, it what. Sixth lecture, 90% of it is completely Pythonic. That was a additional lecture that was added just to make sure traders will not get into these kind of difficult scenarios, because our energy should be spent in understanding the markets and then strategizing the trades, more than kind of making our psychology better, because we are filling with the trades replaced. So think about all this. If you are still a manual trader, that is fine, all better algorithmic trader, or better manual traders. First, if you could be a better manual trader, then you can add more nuances into your algorithmic trading. So then it wouldn't just be mathematics. You would also add your own observations. So that is actually good,

Speaker 1  3:10:44  
but if you're still planning to be a manual trader, definitely it's actually important to keep our mind calm, because I could only imagine how when intraday options trader would go through because I've gone through it for three years. It's very stressful, because options itself has an innate unpredictability. On top of it, as a trader, we introduce more variables for failure. So for that very reason, I say, have a book, have a trading journal, and even when you are algorithmic trading, definitely you can automate something. I'm sure you guys will pick your project right for ePad. In the past, I have mentored many students on volatility trading or automating their strategy, etc, and there are few students who actually automated their trading journal, who actually, in fact, nowadays, with LLM, you can definitely automate your trading journal, and also have an opinion also, which tells you how you started as a trader, and what are the good qualities, what is a good mindset for you to trade, etc. And slowly, I would recommend you to lean towards algorithmic trading. And that's where it is. See when you're when you have to review your trades or completely reframe how you are trading, right? You need to have a journal, be it manual, be it algorithmic, but only after you make changes, you will start realizing that, okay, you're trading better. Your position sizing is much better. You're not doing emotional trades, etc. All these things will be easily handled if you automate it and then don't kind of change your stop losses, change your entries, exits, etc. So that's pretty much it. But just to kind of end this class, there is one funny thing. I know I will stretch for 10 more minutes, but I'll just finish it in couple of minutes. I've seen many traders. In fact, I'm also guilty of it. When I was a kid, I started trading, like at a very young age. And then I remember, I was, remember thinking, compounding is a friend. If we could kind of double our money every month, then this is how much I would make. And I still remember as a kid, I was thinking, okay, I can start with small capital, and I can become a millionaire, whatever. Right? So all these things are exciting things to think but in reality, it's very harsh. So try to do your back tests and don't predict or don't try to calculate how much money you would get based on back test. Always bank on your real live trading results and try to improve them. As you try to get alpha, try to beat index, you will definitely be in a better position. So that's essentially what it is. Don't, don't spend too much time watching trading news, etc, because you are all equipped to get your own opinion on the market. So the classes we structured through OTL six are the ones that gives you complete hold of what's happening in the market from your point of view, which is the which is important thing, what you believe market will go, what your model says those you need to validate to trades, and if something wrong happens, you there is something to learn. I've added couple of case studies in next class, I think in what is three and five, also where you can improve when you go wrong. Okay, so get these things right, and this is just the ending slides. All what we are talking now is just to get you ready for upcoming classes and also as an option trader for you. And that's pretty much it just research, plan, trade and review. This is a cycle, and as I said, I've added a case study also for it for us to we'll actually spend a one and a half hour to research what's happening in the market. There is a historical example. We'll plan a trade and see the results. We'll review them. Definitely. You're going to get lost. And we're going to follow the same process two, three times. And finally, and end of that one and a four, we will actually get a profitable strategy for that market condition. So that's pretty much it. I must say, good luck, because I know this is not a large lecture, but still, I know many of you guys are very excited to learn options trading and put it in practice. So that's the end of lecture, but let's go through. Questions, if you have any interesting ideas of strategies, or if what you believe on options trading anything, you can just type it out in the chat. I think we will spend maybe 510 minutes on questions, and let's close after that. Let me see the questions. So the very first question was By Shreyas, how to model option strategy for upcoming Indian budget perspective for retail medium or large frequency.

Speaker 1  3:15:28  
This is, this is exactly what we are going to discuss in the upcoming lectures. I don't want to give you half answers, because it's not that easy in the sense, as I said, don't listen to anybody's trading strategies. We are all equipped to get our own idea, because I'll tell you, depending on your capital, depending on the contract you trade, and depending on your holding period and risk capacity, the results completely change. So there is no one strategy that defines what you could do in a scenario, but this is a special case we're going to discuss. So Shreyas, I think you will get an answer as we move forward. Then Carlos asks you say that it's easier to forecast volatility than prices. What do you think are God's inputs for models in order to forecast the future evolution of volatility? Is data from options good for predicting this actually takes back to the difficult problem of predicting volatility I was dealing with, yes, when you ask me, What are God inputs, I would say implied volatility, because that's what market fails. And most of the outputs you see is what market fails. But they're actually very interesting methods you could use. In fact, OTs in OTS four, we will discuss guards model to forecast volatility, not only GARCH, we'll discuss two, three models to forecast volatility. But I remember I used implied volatility and Brownian motion, combining both. I've input that into GARCH model to get better, predictable results. Remember, I did it like three, four years ago, but now there are better models, because so far, you're asking me, What are the inputs for a prediction model, but now we are at an age of machine learning, and I'm sure you have machine learning in other modules, you know, ePAT also, where you would let the machine decide what these factors are, right? Because right now, even if we work hard and then put in those factors and have our models, definitely they are not going to be as machine learning, so keep up with it. We're going to discuss these inputs in what is three itself, but yes, you can explore more from terms of machine learning. Veera Raja Gopal asks, Can you do a scatter map of stock returns and volatility? Of volatility? How does it look? I don't have a scatter map ready, but this is pretty straightforward. We know returns are inversely proportional to volatility, and we know volatility is directly proportional to wall of wall, so it's quite evident that stock returns, or any index returns, would be inversely proportional to wall of wall. And yeah, I remember doing sudden kind of study in the past, but I don't have the numbers now, but definitely they would be university proportional. But let me give you a tidbit. If you are trying to do this study, you divide your correlation plot into phases, because, as I said, market behaves logically sometimes, sometimes you see strong positive correlation, also for few months. So in those months, it's interesting to see what kind of strategy you want to deploy so that you can try it out. Then Shreyas ask, can you please check Wix on trading view? Trading view, okay, CBOE, Wix. Trading view, yeah, we have it here. VIX, CBOE,

Speaker 1  3:18:43  
yes, you can definitely explore this I just showed in Google, but you can also see it in trading, where you will see the same chat. What is the next question? Are HB and IV? Plot shifted on x is equal to T? Access here, it was just a representation, generally accessibility. It was shifted to the starting point. But no, they are not shifted. By the way, they're not shifted. That's a continuous plot, but just you've seen a part of the plot. But it doesn't matter much, because we are finding the percentage gap in HV and IV, which we calculate separately, doesn't depend on where you're starting. So it doesn't matter. I mean, this question was by nicolach. Nicolach, okay, I hope that was answered. Narayan, there are two more questions left. Narayan Sujit asks a psychology question, how much return should we expect as we see such unreal numbers on social Oh, my God, you're talking about numbers on socials. One thing they don't tell you is, what is a leverage they're using? First of all, all socials, all screenshots you see in social because I'm an avid user of all these forums on Reddit as well. And there are apps that, if you punch in any platform right, like Robin Hood or in India. The there are platforms that actually gives you a Pendle statement and Pendle screenshot, also you can easily did them. But I must tell you, I for the past one year and trading options in crypto, and there are 200 times leverage. So I even I've seen personally, I also made a very good, extremely high returns, and I made extremely high losses also. I lost like there are cases where I lost 500% and there are cases where I made 3,000% 4,000% also. But if I had to put it on social, I might only put positive numbers. So as I'm telling you, don't bank on buy back tests for your future, understanding of where your capital would go. Don't bank on extremely good results. Also, because those are all outliers, right? The things you see in socials are outliers. There was not average returns. So those cannot be see, you might get it one or two trades, but those can't be a foundation of your trading career. By one side, Shreyas asks, given that influx of quants accelerating alpha decay and market efficiency, why is the focus often on HFT, where competition is wouldn't retail MFT offer sustainable returns for individual retail traders? So this is right. Definitely, there is no reason why a retail trader would go for HFT to get this because what you said is extremely Right. Definitely quants has decayed the alpha and market efficiency debatable, but in a way, but yes, especially when it comes to HFT, you're right. And I don't see any retail traders going out of MTF and LTF for extreme returns. And when you talk about sustainable return, see it is actually very difficult, or I might say it's easier, to get some kind of an alpha with HFT, if you have right models, if you have right understanding of market microstructure, there are few easier or low hanging fruits in HFT. That is the reason why you see many funding that go to HFT. But that is the same reason why hfts are not able to expand or scale their strategies much. Because I don't want to give some numbers, but as far as I speak to people who are in HFT, very few limited people, I know, but they give me something numbers saying I have a proper algorithm. But after so and so millions, it will stop making money, because I can't scale it up, because I would start influencing the market. So both are different ball games. So I know we compare HFT, MFT, lft, because we are talking about frequency of trading, but the strategies and the approach are completely different. So yes, to answer your question, it would be more sustainable returns, especially as a retailers for MFT and lft. So the last question by Nicolaj, Nicolaj Karl NOK, are there useful models to tackle an underlying future returns from the its volatility surface. Or is it esoteric? There are models that's exactly what you want to get in Iots four, where the title is volatility measurement and forecast. So yeah, there are models. In fact, there are pretty solid models that are going to give you how to tackle this options trading by keeping these volatility surface in mind. And yeah, we're going to get it in couple of lectures. Nikolaj, so I hope this lecture is useful to you. And yeah, we have four more lectures, and we are going to meet quite often. So all the very best any doubts you have, you can definitely reach out to me through support, or you can also email to support and all the very best. Thanks, guys.

