Speaker 1  0:07  
Uh, hello, everyone. Can you hear me? Okay, if you can hear me, please put something in the questions panel. This is Dr Hui Liu from San Jose, California. Okay, great. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thank you everybody, yeah, let me start my video so so that you can see me in person.

Speaker 2  0:35  
Let me see what. Okay, good. Thank you everybody. Let me start. So this is Dr Hui Liu from San Jose, California. My local time is 8pm January 24 Saturday evening, and our last session was December last year. So at the beginning, I want to say thank you for coming and Happy New Year. Okay, yeah, so let's start our session. The first thing I want to do is from the last session. We talk about buy low, sell high model, and we used pandas data frame to do some back testing, and we tuned the model a little bit.

Speaker 1  1:34  
The model we tuned are here. We tuned it from a pure swing

Speaker 2  1:42  
into a combination of swing and the trend by changing this line, if you still remember and x is the close price change from yesterday to today, if x is smaller the 1.1% then we place a long position. Otherwise we we want to place a short position, and we trade it daily, and we did back testing. The red one is the portfolio of our strategy, and the black line is Spy. Spy actually buy and hold SPI. We got a pretty good at least looks pretty good performance. So I left one of the homeworks is to answer Why, what happened? What could be wrong about this simulation? How much confidence can we put into this strategy? So I want to hear your answers, actually, okay, I got from Zubin said a cost. I assume you're talking about the transaction cost, right? Yes, execution Yeah. Narayan mentioned execution cost. Yes, good transaction card, or you call it execution cost. But do you really have some idea? How much does it cost for a transaction?

Speaker 2  3:41  
Anybody? Any ideas about transaction cost?

Speaker 2  3:51  
Based on your experience? I assume you you have some training, trading experience, any idea about the transaction cost?

Unknown Speaker  4:06  
No, nobody want to answer that.

Speaker 2  4:12  
Two to 3% round trip? No, that's too much. That's definitely too much about 0.02% in Indian for intraday, really 0.02 Akash now really mentioned on percentage profit all 0.1 to 0.01 great. Let me give you some three. I mentioned maximum, 0.05% Yeah, actually, different country may have a different price structure. I can give you a little bit information I know. In mainland China, the transaction cost is roughly 0.5% roughly in the United States, is even lower. The reason for that is the taxation about US tax law. There's some, there are some clauses protection for the traders so different country, but at least you have some feeling that 1% definitely is too high. Definitely is too high. Okay, yes, so mahash mentioned is a broker, brokerage to trading platform and the government taxes. Yes, exactly. Ah, yes. Zubin mentioned 2% to 3% for delivery, including brokerage exchange fee, regulator fee, stem duties and the security. Transaction tax, yes, if we don't talk about tax purely transaction cost pure, because we can talk about tax here. Okay, so expectation is 0.5% that's my target, my understanding, actually, but different country or different account may have different structure, okay, let's don't talk about the cost, assuming cost is very, very low, okay. And actually we will talk about average pi. Today, we will talk about the back testing in average pi. In average pi, there is a default Commission. It will be calculated for you. Actually, you will see that the cost is not the as a percentage. The transaction cost itself is pretty small, actually, in percentage wise, okay, okay, other than that, what else other than that? What else could be wrong or this result is too optimistic. Any other comments?

Speaker 2  7:35  
Future biasness should have mentioned that I assume you're talking about the forward looking bias, which means using the future data in the back testing, right? But actually, our model does not have any look forward biases. Why? Because you can see my, my model, right? I every row,

Unknown Speaker  8:11  
every row

Speaker 2  8:13  
does not have anything from future at all. No, nothing, actually. So forward biases is not, is not the reason. Okay, so being mentioned number of transactions, question mark, too many trees. No, think about that. That's not actually from here, you won't easily see how many transactions, but actually you will see that not too many transactions at all, no.

Unknown Speaker  8:56  
Rug have. Rug have.

Speaker 2  9:00  
Okay. Mentioned four items, overfitting to historical data. Okay, we will talk about overfitting later. Okay, hidden leverage? No, I didn't put any leverage at all. Tail risk. What is tail risk? First one, liquidity risk. What is liquidity risk?

Speaker 2  9:32  
I don't actually in my model, I don't have many assumptions at all, because I'm only use two data. One data is close price of yesterday, one data is close price today. And then I put a rate there. That's all in my model. Okay? Slippage. Rare mentioned slipping, definitely, slippage is one of the reason. Yes, my simulation does not consider slippage at all. No, that's a good answer. That's a good answer. So

Unknown Speaker  10:23  
anything else you can think of.

Unknown Speaker  10:31  
Okay, maybe it's a little bit harder for everybody.

Speaker 2  10:36  
Okay, let me explain. Explain you a little bit here. Still go back this line. So assuming that, assuming, in my account, I have $100 assuming, assuming, however, assuming that the price of of spy is $60 then

Unknown Speaker  11:07  
how many shares I can buy? Just one share, right? I have $100

Speaker 2  11:14  
but it costs $60 per share because most of the brokers does not support fractional shares. No, most of them don't okay. But in my simulation, I always assume that all of my portfolios, all of my portfolio, can be liquidated and purchase spy, which means fractional shares must be used somewhere, is one of The assumptions. Okay, and it definitely have some contribution to this performance. Slip, it is the other one. Okay, slip, it is another one. Okay, then, but we need to consider the next thing is, is that overfitting or underfitting. Anybody? What's your opinion? How can we decide if it's overfitting or underfitting?

Unknown Speaker  12:35  
Anybody want to comment on that? No?

Speaker 1  12:48  
So when you build your own model, definitely that is something you must consider.

Speaker 2  12:55  
Is, is, how will my model perform in real market. If I overfit, then I will have a perfect simulation result, but I will have a horrible performance in real market, right? That is overfitting. If it's underfitting, which means my model does not catch the main factor of the performance, and the profile performance is not that well and may fluctuate because I didn't got the main point. Okay, so we are, Vera mentioned best performance in back test and below average performance in real market is overfitting. But that is not a definition of overfitting, because how can you define what is the best performance? How can you define below average performance in real market is a phenomena of overfitting, but it's not a definition of fitting, of overfitting, and it's not a mathematical way to determine if my model is overfitting or underfitting. Okay, agreed. Group time mentioned, can test this model on out of sample data, all paper trading. That is a really good comment. If you have learned other courses in ePad journey, they have a course, they have a topic talking about back testing, and definitely you need to split your sample into test. And training later, yeah, training and the test split, I didn't do it here. That is one of the reason. Okay, the performance is, looks real good. However, however, I have taught ePad for almost 10 years. I come up this model maybe eight years ago. I didn't change this model for the past eight years. I keep talking about this model for eight years. I didn't change anything. The model still looks good, which means it experienced a real good for testing already. So even if I did a test trend data split, the performance will be really similar, but I didn't show you here, okay, but data split, definitely, there's something you need to do to build your model, but it won't tell you overfitting or underfitting. Okay, so we will mention average performance in back testing, and the best performance in the real market is under 50. No, no, no, no. That is not under thinking. Okay, that is not shrias mission. Why does the output look too good to be true? Why says Shriya? That is the reason we're talking about that's the reason my homework. I gave everybody a homework to think about why, what happened? Actually? Okay, okay, let's go back to the next page.

Speaker 2  17:00  
Okay, everybody read it with me together. If you torture the data long enough, it will confess to anything. Okay, that is very famous saying. But what does it mean? Okay, so a mathematical way to determine if your model is overfitting or under fitting is considered degree of freedom, okay, that is a mathematical way to determine that. So overfitting means okay.

Speaker 2  17:42  
Over overfitting means too many parameters but less data for training, so that the model memorize the data during training, poorly

Unknown Speaker  18:00  
predictability on real data.

Speaker 2  18:05  
Okay, that is a hold on a little bit.

Speaker 2  18:18  
Okay, so well done. Something wrong on my Okay, okay, good, okay, that is overfitting, under feeding. The true nature of the data is not captured by the model. Should add more parameters. Okay, that is overfitting and under feeding. So I assume everybody has some basic knowledge about linear regression and is familiar with degree of freedom, okay, my question to everybody that, how many degree of freedom

Unknown Speaker  19:07  
does the model use?

Unknown Speaker  19:12  
Let me repeat the question.

Speaker 1  19:16  
How many degree of freedom does the model use? Anybody two? Marta said, Two. Okay, which two?

Unknown Speaker  19:37  
Marta

Unknown Speaker  19:54  
and the other No.

Speaker 2  20:00  
The number of observations, n equals two number of observations. What do we mean by number of observations? Slope and intercept? No, that is not correct. Actually, slope and intercept are two variables in your linear regression.

Unknown Speaker  20:28  
Okay, that is slope and the intercept.

Speaker 2  20:33  
So, Shiva, Raj, okay, let me repeat, okay, if I mispronounce your name. I'm very sorry about that. You know, I'm not a native English speaker. I'm sorry about that. I will try my best. Okay, so price and the change of return says, close. Can you be more specific arcane cash parameters? So O, H, L, C, V is five, but

Unknown Speaker  21:09  
does the model really use five? Okay, let's go back to the model to take a look.

Unknown Speaker  21:21  
Okay, right here.

Unknown Speaker  21:23  
This is my model. This is my model that's right here, right?

Speaker 2  21:36  
How many degree of freedoms does the model use just purely based on this line? Because this is the line the model makes decision right? It's right there, it's right there. It's

Speaker 2  22:08  
okay, two. Rock have said two, what are these two? That's my question. When you say two, you need to explicitly tell me which to close price and returns? No, no, it's not returns. Close price is. Hold on, hold on. Let me too many answers. Okay, let me see Shriya said, Shiva. Raj said, close price today and close price yesterday. Exactly that is I'm looking for. Thank you. That is exactly I'm looking for, okay and okay. Shubham asked how to calculate degree of freedom. Actually think about pandas data frame. There are so many columns, and typically there's one simulation target right? Roughly, you can think about how many columns do you use in your model? Roughly, okay. And Maria said, three, okay, that is something I like better. Berea said three. Close, price change, lambda and rate. What is lambda? Lambda is a function. Lambda is not a parameter. Lambda is the Python function, okay, but your answer is the best answer. Actually. Monique Candon said yesterday and today's close press, yes, you are correct. Zubin said today and the previous close press, yes. Algorithm said n equals to one, as is using the pair of yesterday close price and today's close price. Actually, let me tell you the result. The answer is three, okay, but verdure didn't answer it correctly, because it's not lambda, actually three columns. Let me explain. There so close price change from yesterday to today, even if I calculated in percentage. But in reality, independent state frame, there are only two columns I used. One is close price today, the other one is close price of yesterday. But you may be confused as a green argument said it is a pair. Of yesterday's close price and today's close price, because we only shift the close price of today one up to get yesterday's close price. But think about that. Is there any relationship between yesterday's price and today's close price? No, and it's called a lag dash one, so we should treat them as two parameters in the model. Okay, clear any question. I assume most of you answer the correctly here. But what is that? The other degree of freedom I use? Where is the other one? It comes from this rate. But you may argue that this rate is just a fixed number, right? In my model, I just use 0.011, why do you say it is a degree of freedom? Because, how did I calculate this value? Because I did some simulation like this, right? What I did was to what I did was to sweep the rate from minus 0.02 to positive 0.02 and then calculate the result. Finally, I got I should put 0.11 around this area, and because of I did some parameter tuning this step used one degree of freedom, therefore the correct answer is three. So

Unknown Speaker  27:03  
okay, okay, any questions, comments.

Speaker 2  27:17  
No question, okay, great, okay, then let me ask you a question, considering that my model, the degree of freedom of my model is three, then I want to ask you A question, is model over fitting or under feeding

Unknown Speaker  27:48  
anybody her Mandra said, overfitting, why? Why is overfitting

Speaker 2  27:58  
agreement algorithm said, I don't understand the reason behind considering rate as a degree of freedom. Red have said overfitting. Okay, let me briefly explain again why rate is another degree of freedom. Okay, so because I did a sweeping sweeping means I tried multiple rate to get the best one, which means I use more information. I use more information other than close price, and yesterday is close price more than that so that I have to use one degree of freedom because I did a parameter tuning.

Unknown Speaker  28:59  
Okay, so

Speaker 2  29:03  
Okay, okay, so Shubham mentioned overfitting as we changing the rate until we get optimal portfolio returns. No, it's not the definition of overfitting. Okay, let me come back to the definition of overfitting. Overfitting the definition is here, too many parameters, but less data for training. That is called overfitting. The Model memorize the data during training so that poorly predictability on real data. Okay, that is the definition of overfitting. Okay,

Speaker 2  29:54  
okay, let me ask you this question. How many rows do. How many rows in my pandas data frame?

Unknown Speaker  30:10  
Does anybody remember that?

Speaker 2  30:23  
What does real data mean? Real data I there's real data. I'm talking about historical data. I used historical data to train my model, right? My question is, actually I put historical data into a pandas data frame, there are columns and there are rows, right? Okay, let me that, because this part that's not what I want, because this part is very, very important.

Speaker 1  31:01  
Okay, so that I want to spend a little bit time to talk about that.

Speaker 2  31:18  
Okay, this is my data. Remember, this are the columns. This is the original column, and we added a few columns. Okay, and this are rows. Each row is one daily data.

Unknown Speaker  31:44  
Okay, remember that everybody

Speaker 2  31:55  
so my question is Zubin, mentioned, I think all the data were used for training, yes, yes, roughly, do you remember how many rows in my data?

Speaker 1  32:18  
You remember? Probably not let me go back to here. Okay, here, this one. How many data?

Speaker 2  32:38  
How many data? A 20 years equals to how many rows? Roughly, roughly 5000 Yes, 5007 30, yeah, but think about this, only trading days. Trading days, okay, 20 years. Trading days, yeah, roughly 5000 exactly everybody. Thank you Maria Sharia, thank you many candidates. Thank you everybody. Thank you good. Roughly 5000 Okay, so how many data per degree of freedom I used In my model,

Speaker 2  33:35  
roughly how many it should be 5000. Divided by three is equals to 1600 66 Yes, agreed. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, then my question is based on that number, is that overfitting or underfitting?

Speaker 2  34:15  
Underfitting mantra, thank you. Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  34:19  
Underfitting. Yes. Exactly, any question about that part,

Unknown Speaker  34:33  
any question comments, no,

Speaker 2  34:41  
no, nothing if no any question. I want to ask you a question, considering chat GPT. Considering chat GPT, how many degree of freedom in chat GPT is more? And how many data were used to change chatgpt? Is that overfitting or under feeding?

Unknown Speaker  35:14  
Anybody you have Google do it

Speaker 2  35:19  
that's massive. Now let's try to count. Let's try to try to count how many data were used to train one degree of freedom for chat. GPT, okay.

Speaker 2  35:38  
Agreement asked, how do we find by a single number that is under fitting or overfitting? That is exactly the question I'm asking you, chat GPT everybody using that right? That's my question. How many parameters in chat GPT model and how many data were used? Billions? Anybody can give me some rough idea.

Speaker 2  36:16  
No, nobody. Marta mentioned the billions. Yes, correct the billions. But I want more accurate data, if possible.

Unknown Speaker  36:31  
Sri, I mentioned 175

Speaker 2  36:34  
billion parameters. Great. And how many data do they use? Did they use to train that model? She being thank you so much. Pet bots, Narayan mentioned estimated one petabyte. Okay, then per parameter, how many data were used for one parameter,

Speaker 2  37:12  
Monica then mentioned, roughly 570 gigabyte of filter tags, roughly 500 to 500 billion tokens, roughly 500 billion tokens. Okay, that's really great. Thank you. So think about that, assuming 500 billion tokens, and there are 175 billion parameters. How many data were used to train the model per parameter? What's this rough number? Okay, anybody Shriya mentioned the 1 trillion parameters? Okay, let's use 1 trillion. Okay. Then how many data were used per degree of freedom per parameter? Okay, it should be 1 trillion. Over 175 right? Roughly number is 5am?

Unknown Speaker  38:24  
I correct? Am I correct? Anybody five 1000 Okay, any question, five, okay, that is the number for chat GPT.

Speaker 2  38:53  
Okay, let me ask you the next question, okay, for chat GPT model, is it overfitting or under feeding?

Unknown Speaker  39:08  
If you don't have questions, then I will ask you questions.

Speaker 2  39:11  
Okay. I mean, I hope you enjoy that interactive discussion. Okay, how do you feel about the chat GPT model is that overfitting or under feeding? Braid said overfitting. Why? Why you think it's overfitting? So being mentioned underfitting cannot model the whole world. Do we need to model the whole world? No rock ham mentioned under fitting. Okay, it's hard. Actually, it's a really hard question for everybody, but let me give you some hint. Okay, why we're talking about, why we're talking about overfitting. For entropy. The reason is manikin dimension closely under fitting cause data greater than parameters. Okay, actually think about that. If one data, one parameter, which means, which means the model memorize data easily. Okay, easily. And chat GBT is about five, which means the model pretty much memorize 20% of the tax. Okay, and it can use that to do some pretty good answering. Instead of overfitting or under feeding. It's hard to say, because the reason we're talking about overfitting and under feeding is when we have a model, we want to know that what's the performance of the model in real production. Okay, that is the reason we're talking about overfitting or under feeding. But for a chat, GPT is very, very hard to say that the performance in real production is better than training or worse than training, even if it's a little bit worse. It doesn't matter, right? People don't have that feeling. Okay? So it comes down to one thing is, when we're talking about a number, how many data should be used to train a parameter in a model? It depends on use case for chat, GPT five might be good enough already,

Speaker 1  42:05  
but for a typical linear regression, for a typical linear regression, roughly, you can see 20

Speaker 2  42:18  
to 100 depends on your use case, will be the right number.

Unknown Speaker  42:24  
Okay, okay, this is room thumb.

Speaker 2  42:31  
If it's a good linear regression and depends on use case, turn it to 100

Unknown Speaker  42:39  
It will be a good number any question,

Speaker 2  43:01  
any question. Okay, so sugar ham asked error equals to test, minus training based on that will decide over or under feeding? No, it's not. It's not okay. Overfitting or underfitting purely depends on how many data are used to train one parameter. Okay. It's nothing related to the performance. Okay. Algorithm mentioned so in our case, was it under fitting? That is my question to you, that is my question to you, is our model underfitting or overfitting?

Unknown Speaker  43:54  
Any comments? Any comments,

Speaker 2  44:00  
I really want to everybody to participate discussion, any questions, comments, is our model under feeding or overfitting or right fitting? Many candid mentioned closely underfitting, because rule of thumb is 20 to 100 and our model is roughly 1600 so based on that, we can see is under fitting, okay, but there's always something we need to talk about. Use Case. We're talking about the financial prediction, and we're talking about the price of stocks. Okay, okay, so turning to 100 might not be a good number for us. Why? Why? Because price is notoriously fluctuation is too much and does not follow normal distribution, which means if we want to have a good predictability, we should try our best to increase the number per degree of freedom. So for if you want to predict price, especially price stock price, 100 is still too low, my recommendation is 1000 okay, my recommendation is 1000

Speaker 1  45:44  
for your model. Okay, so roughly, we're about one 1600

Speaker 2  45:52  
data points per degree of freedom in our model. So theoretically, is still under fitting, but not poorly under fitting, I would say a little bit under fitting. So which means what we should do? Should have mentioned that 5000 over three roughly equals to 1600 data points per degree of freedom in our model, it is right fitting. I won't see is the right fitting the correct? The calculation is correct, but based on if we are talking about 1000 data points per degree of freedom for a model for price. So we are still under fitting. We're still under fitting. Then my if you don't have questions, then my question to you is, what should we do after we got a conclusion that it is underfitting? What we should do,

Speaker 2  47:09  
add more parameters. Mandy, candid, thank you so much. Okay, let's stop talking about that, which means our model is not that great model, but it's not too bad. Okay, that is the conclusion long discussion. I really hope you enjoyed that part, because that is the key point of building a model. And a lot of people ask me, how do you evaluate your model, is that performance? No, that is something I like to discuss. Okay, is that sharp ratio? Sharp ratio is pretty good indicator for your model, but it's not everything. Okay, any question at this moment about fitting a model anything like that, any questions. Shia said, given that the influx of quants accelerates alpha decay and market efficacy, would anybody really predict the future price of spy? That's really good question, but it comes down to, what do we mean by predict future price? Okay, anything comes with a confidence level we cannot simply use one point to predict future is cheating. Okay? Then what is good prediction? And when you got a prediction, will that be useful for you? Okay, when it tells you that I go to exam, the best score is 100 the worst score is zero, I tell you that my predictability of my score is 50, but plus minus 30, does it mean anything? Probably not, right. So everything come down to the point prediction and confidence level.

Speaker 2  49:39  
Okay, many can ask how much rapid data points we require per degree of freedom in any financial model, or it will change based on linear regression and the classification model. It's hard to tell you a good number I cannot see for any financial model. This question is too big for me. Okay, in all financial cases, can we take 1000 as a good, good base to consider? Yes, you can think about is the starting point actually okay? Is that good number depends? Okay. Algorithm said, what other parameters we could have added to tune our model from under fitting to right fitting. You need to do your research to try other models. Actually, I can not predict which parameter is the best. Crucial. Said, so now that we establish, enter fitting in the model, and we want to add parameters to it. How do we determine the parameters to add? You just need to try, actually, to try, what's the best? What's the next parameter to to add? Okay, okay, no. If no, question we need to move forward. I hope everybody enjoys discussion about here. I think that is the really key point about learning algorithm trading actually, then the next part will be more on the coding part, but it's also very important, actually. Okay, so the roadmap is, first, let's build a trading robot based on our buy low, sell high model, and then we will talk about different back testing strategies handle various scenarios in live trading, because we want to make some money. It's not just a fun for playing a model, okay? And then no other import. Import important should be important features. Okay, trade options. Manager multiple accounts. Those are pretty, you know, realistic, because fund managers really need to manage multiple accounts, and a lot of traders like to trade options. Okay, deploy a robot. Okay, let's move on. Okay, the steps to build algo trading programs. This is just a road map for you to consider actually, what should be done. Okay, let's go through one by one, what contracts Do you want to trade? And is that straightforward or not? No, it's not that straightforward because there are multiple ways to choose contracts, like buy low, sell high. I just trade spy. Is that the best one I can tell? I just pick spy. Actually, you can choose others, so that is based on your research to determine what contracts you want to trade. Another way is you can, you can build a stock screener and find out what do we want to trade, actually. So that's something you need to consider. Next one is when to make trading decisions at what frequency. So that is question you need to ask yourself. Should you trade the daily, daily bar labor or weekly, or even minute bar and at what point you will make tradition and make a decision. We want to do it every day, every minute or every second or every millisecond. It's possible, actually, if you are high frequency trading, or maybe even faster, okay, next, what information are needed to make trading decisions? Do you base on historical data or social media sentiment or something else or fundamental data, that's something you need to consider. What strategy to place orders. So you can see, I want to buy in every time, okay? Or you can say I want to test half our portfolio. If it goes into the right decision, right direction, then I place more. Yeah, that's probably good, but you need to decide what's the best way to do that. Next one is when to do stop loss and take profits,

Speaker 2  54:20  
and when to exit the positions, all of them need to be answered, but how to answer them? And based on back testing, actually and the forward test, so there's no no, you know, crystal ball to make that decision, the best way to me, is to run back testing to see how well your decision performed in the past, and we assume that the market will repeat itself in some way. And then we assume. Based on our previous knowledge, we can make future prediction, okay, next one is continuously or wrong as needed. What does it mean? It means if you trust your trading robot, and every decision can be made based on your trading robot, your algorithm, then you can deploy your trading robot and run it continuously, let it handle every scenario. That is called continuous, which means you just run it and just live there. Don't touch it. Don't make any judgment by person that is continuously next one is wrong as needed, because a lot of people want to make some personal touch. That's okay if you feel you can make more profit by that way. Do it, of course. Then how to deploy trading robot. Okay, so it's easy because you can click Run button to trigger to run your robot, and you can also click stop button to stop it. For example, every morning you want to read some news and change your model a little bit to fit your understanding about market, and then run the robot to do some of the work. And you keep watching until you decide to do something. Then you click stop and make some changes, and then run the robot again. That is wrong as needed, okay, so that is how to do that. There's one question Shriya asked, how to automate the stock screener. We will talk about that later. Okay, okay, after that, then is time to really build buy low, sell high strategy, because our admin the goal is, how much can we make? Can we make some money? If we can make some money, then how much is it right? That is question based on our we know our previous model is too optimistic, right? We want to have more realistic result. That is a goal, okay? And also, if you feel that is pretty good model, then we can run it, okay, in real market, okay. Then let's talk about how to build it. So this is a short description. So if today's close price is lower than yesterday's close price, then buy spy using all cash, otherwise, sell off all positions. Okay, so we just manually input contract is spy. We didn't build, we didn't build a stock screener, so it's just spy, right? Okay, that's easy. It's a kind of reversion strategy. It won't hurt, it won't have any impact on your decision how to make a robot. It's just a description, actually, what's the frequency we want to make decision daily, because every day we will get a close price, and we want to make a judgment of that, okay, what kind of information we need? We only need historical data and historical data only one data point is yesterday's close price, right? And with the current price, typically, that's default. We want to know the default price. The default is the close. The current price is always the default. Okay, okay. And trading decision made at spot time, 3:59pm, Eastern Time, any question about that,

Unknown Speaker  59:08  
any question about that,

Speaker 2  59:22  
any question about trading decision made as part time 3:15pm, Eastern Time, any question about that. So that is a very critical thing.

Unknown Speaker  59:34  
I want to make sure everybody have a full understanding about this part.

Speaker 2  59:44  
Okay, some background, us, market close at 4pm Eastern Time, okay, so which means one minute before the market close. Yes. Yes. I mean, mentioned before closing our Yes. Many Kingdom said, what if we don't get filled at 359 really good question. How can we do that? You will see that the next line is market order for instant execution. Is that a good thing? It's hard to tell, actually, but you need to make some decision in your room, in your risk, in your real trading robot. I can't tell if market order is that good or not at this moment, but it does feed my model, right? Okay, Shia asked many times back testing results are overwhelming. The actual R, O, L in markets, I can tell that actually, typically, you will see a lot of people post their back testing results, and we don't know any details, so it's hard to make a judgment on that. Okay, so one, one thing I want to mention about return of investment. Yeah, yeah, exactly that. I understand what you mean. Actually, that's my point. A lot of people post their back testing results that I got a super superb strategy, right? It's hard to tell. Is that overfitting or enter feeding, and what, how many data points are used? Is that the real money or paper money, because they're they're different, okay? And also, what's the volume of of of money? Is it $1 or $10 or million or 10 minutes? That's totally different. Okay, okay, one thing I'll talk about that is 359 Eastern time. Do we have a close price at this moment? And what? Anybody is a question to you? 359 do we have today's close price? No, that's very clear, right, right? That's very clear. Then, why? Why do we do that? What's the logic behind it?

Unknown Speaker  1:02:28  
What's the logic behind it? Anybody

Speaker 2  1:02:39  
really great from Akasha. We got price very close to close price. Really good money. Candid said closest price to the close price? Yes, great. Zubin mentioned candle close Yes. I understand what you mean exactly we assume. We assume the spot price at 359 is very close, at least statistically, close to the true close price. Okay, let me repeat. Let me repeat. We had an assumption that the spot price at 359 is statistically equal to today's close price. Okay, so is my local. Time is 903, let's have seven minute break. But one question to you, one question to you, how can we prove our assumption is correct? Okay, okay, let's have seven minute break. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:11:56  
Hello, can you hear me?

Speaker 2  1:12:03  
Can you hear me? Yes, great, thank you. Okay, let's continue. I left one question to everybody that, how can we prove our assumption? Okay, Narendra mentioned to prove the assumption, we can just check historical difference in close price to price at 359 Yes, great. Thank you. And what statistical hypothesis? What a hypothesis test you should use? Maria, anybody? This should be statistical. 101, right? Standard deviation? Yes, standard deviation is a should be student t test, right.

Speaker 1  1:12:56  
Okay, yeah, okay, good, good. Let's continue. Okay, one question to everybody. One question

Speaker 2  1:13:09  
to everybody. Okay, I left two homeworks last time it's time to check the other homework. The other homework is to go to the prerequisite about average pi, course, have you finished it? You can say yes or no. Don't feel embarrassed if say, if you say, No, thank you. Agree. How about others? Yes, no, no, been No. How about others. I just want to actually don't feel embarrassed to say no. My goal is to understand the percentage of people who need more help on that so that I can adjust my lecture a little bit to feed everybody. Okay, okay, half, half, okay, thank you. Okay, not half half, actually, yes, a little bit, maybe 60 to 40. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. Okay, let's continue. Okay, so if you put in the code, you will see the editor will have some highlight about some syntax errors, but actually they are not syntax errors, because average pi import a lot of functions for you already so that you don't need to memorize where to import those so that you can safely ignore those force alarms.

Speaker 1  1:14:54  
Okay. Next is, what's this one? Huh? Hold on. Okay, here. Okay, so the real implementation is here. Let's go to that. Take a look. This one is the epadden demo, parallel cell. Higher. What's that you have a demo by a low cell, high? Oh, right there. Okay, do

Speaker 2  1:15:45  
mouse. Okay, it's time to talk about the implementation part. You can see the implementation in average pie research robot is really, really simple already, okay, so let me quickly explain what's going on. There are two functions. One is called the initialize, the other one is called this, buy low, sell high. Okay. The function of initialize is just it runs once, and the goal for it is to this, define some global variables. Okay, you define the life this way, contacts, dot, security, and this is a way to define the contract. You use a function called symbol, and this is just say I want to trade spy, as simple as that. Then, because I want to run my decision every day at 359 Eastern time. So I need something to make it happen. In average, pay the function of schedule. Function is used to make it happen. So this is the function name is right here. It tells average path that run this function. Run this function right here. This function every day. Default is every trading day. Okay, at what point is market close minutes one means one minute before the market close to run this function every trading day. Okay, that's very straightforward. And then what is the logic every day is print, print. They just tell you that something is running and the print date time, okay, you should say 1559, something like that. Okay, the first thing you need is request historical data. Is so straightforward, is to get historical data. Okay, this one is spy. One day means is a daily bar to the means go back two days. So two days so that I will have today's bar and yesterday's bar. The return of this function is Panda state free, and it has Open, High, Low, Close volume. So I'm only care about yesterday's close price. So that is like that, and today's close price, it's like that. If close price of today greater than close price today yesterday, which means I don't want to hold anything okay. How can make it happen? It said other target percentage. It means this one is percentage, 0% and my target is to hold spy 0% which means whatever spy positions will be cleared and kill 0% of spy in your portfolio. So this one will simply say, I don't want to hold anything about spy, whatever is long or short position make it to zero. It's pretty simple, okay. Otherwise, I want the what by 100% of my portfolio to buy SP one. Okay, whatever I have, I want to all of my portfolio by SP one. Okay, so that's it. Any question about this logic?

Unknown Speaker  1:20:05  
Okay, no question, okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:20:07  
let's stop there. Let's move forward.

Speaker 2  1:20:13  
So it's really straightforward, actually, average path, okay, okay. Next thing is, what we really care is, can we make some money? If yes, then how much is that, right? That is the back testing. Okay, I already have my trading robot. I just want to see the performance of it. That is the key point, right?

Speaker 1  1:20:45  
Yeah, okay, then my goal is

Unknown Speaker  1:20:50  
to run back testing.

Speaker 1  1:20:54  
Run back testing, and hold on a little bit. Let me quickly check the logic. Okay, got it, okay.

Speaker 2  1:21:12  
Okay, and Okay. Test me easiest, okay, let me go

Unknown Speaker  1:21:17  
to this one. Pass me easiest. Okay, so in I bridge pi, we have a back testing system, which means,

Speaker 2  1:21:37  
as long as you have a trading robot, then you can back test it.

Unknown Speaker  1:21:46  
That is the

Speaker 2  1:21:50  
best part. You don't need to change anything

Unknown Speaker  1:21:56  
and hold on a little bit.

Speaker 2  1:22:00  
Okay, good, okay, you don't want to. You don't need to change anything about your trading robot. You just run a backpacking and as I mentioned, that average pad does not have any historical data, so that it must have some data source. I'm running IB gateway in the in the background so that average pipe will get data for you and run your run the back test of your trading robot. Run this one. It's just some warning and file name is the name of your trading robot. It's demo, buy low, sell high. It just tell, I want to test this one. This trading robot, okay, data provider, name, IB, Interactive Brokers actually, okay, and you need to tell that, what's the starting point? What's the ending point? Typically, the ending point is not most likely you want to run it until today to see the result, and which means the only thing you need to tell is, what is the starting point here. I said endpoint minus 10 days, which means I want to start from 10 days ago, from the current time until today. That's it. It's pretty straightforward, nothing more than that. So what you need to do is just file name, starting point, IB, that's three configuration you need. Let's run it to see how it goes. So advertise running, get connected to Interactive Brokers and some warning information. Then it tells you that this is the trading robot. You are running some paper money, 100,000 and as you expected, it will print out the time to run. It is a 1559, Eastern Time, January 15, roughly 10 days ago. Okay, what? What's going on?

Speaker 1  1:24:28  
Something wrong? What's that? Oh, very likely. The historical data, yeah, yeah. That happens sometime, because, hold on, let me check.

Speaker 2  1:24:42  
Because especially right now is Eastern Time, midnight. At this moment, the historical data farm of IB is not stable right on this time we're exactly on on the midnight. So it happens sometime.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:04  
Let me try to run it again.

Speaker 2  1:25:15  
Right now, the historical data farm is not stable. As you can see it's yellow. Yellow means it's not stable. Okay. Ibkr is not that stable at this moment, but you can see it started to run something.

Speaker 1  1:25:33  
Okay, it started to run something. Let me take a look about what's going on there.

Speaker 2  1:25:40  
So it says right now, the current time is January 15, 1559, yeah, that's not good, okay, but that's a pretty good demo, actually already, okay, let me tell you a little bit more. Average pack complaint cannot find ingested is for spy at General 15. This one is, UTC, be careful. It's same time. 1550, 933, 15, PM, go back to the bar. Says, one day. What does it mean? It means that every PI itself does not have a historical data, but it needs some data for back testing. So average Pi has to request historical data from IB to continue back testing, but it will be slow, yes and unstable. Recommend to add test in, just a plan in, test me.py, Okay, the next line is some data. Bar size, okay, oh, I see it asked for historical from IB, and it failed because IB is not stable.

Speaker 1  1:27:07  
You see it's still yellow. It's still yellow.

Speaker 2  1:27:10  
So let's stop it and go back to our point PowerPoint. So

Speaker 2  1:27:25  
so the discussion is here, the easiest back testing is very easy to back test. The problem is average has to ask historical data from brokers every time, every second, not every second, every minute, and the daily bar data. So every testing is still yellow. I want to give you some demo, but not successful at this moment, okay, but the point is, average pi need to request the daily bar data and need million bar data, because 359 is the time to simulate the transaction so that every parent needs the spot price at 359 to have a accurate, relatively accurate simulation. So it needs to request daily bar data and minute bar data from Interactive Brokers. Okay, that is the reason for that, the setting is easy, however, it really takes time. Let me check something,

Speaker 1  1:28:55  
it really takes time. Oh, yeah, I don't like it. Okay, let me try to see that again.

Speaker 2  1:29:08  
Okay, it takes one second. Okay, connected to the server. No server is still done. You can see that. You see, I cannot right now, it's just the Eastern midnight. It's time for IB to maintain some server maintenance so that I cannot get connected to interactive broker at this moment. Sorry about that, but that is the reality you need to consider, actually. So the good thing is, how can we handle that okay, how can we handle that situation? Okay, average pie has a solution. So the other way is, if we don't, if we. Cannot request data from Interactive Brokers at every step of a simulation. What we can do is ingest historical data at the beginning and then use that historical data for simulation. Let me see still. Oh, it works. Let me try that. Okay, it's green. Everything is green, which means probably, now it's good time

Unknown Speaker  1:30:33  
run the simulation. Okay, let me try that. Move it here.

Speaker 1  1:30:43  
Before our lecture, I got the result, but let me run it again to see how it works.

Unknown Speaker  1:30:54  
Oh, one thing I forgot to mention that

Speaker 1  1:30:59  
I see, hold on a little bit. Let's see the IPS response. They're working. Yeah, seems okay. Is everything screen so it should work?

Speaker 1  1:31:27  
Does it work? Not yet, still something, oh, still fail. Hold on, let me Okay, so what does it mean? Okay, let me explain a little bit more about

Speaker 2  1:31:48  
about the configuration if you want to ingest historical data at the beginning, so you can see the file name is still same data provider name, same anytime, same starting time. I changed to change it to 20 days, and it's time to tell average pie that I need some historical data so that I write this his ingestion plan, and add individual plan. The individual plan is spy, million bar data, go back 20 days, and I want daily bar data for 21 days. Why like that? Because I need historical, historical data one day. Okay, that is the reason.

Speaker 2  1:32:53  
Still fail. Yeah, that's not a good time to run simulation. But anyway, let's, let's go over that. So this part looks like very familiar to you, because in our implementation part, you see this one looks exactly like the request, historical data format, right? It has a bar size and it has a go back. Why? Because I want to make it looks like historical data so that you can, you can remember that part is, you just tell the back testing the same format as if it's in your in your trading robot, so it literally means you need a million bar data and daily bar data. That's not a good time for for IB data, okay, but that's something we can handle. Is, let me go back

Speaker 1  1:34:13  
to my temptation here, so

Speaker 2  1:34:17  
assuming the broker may not have the data needed, exactly is our case right now. IB does not It's not to be a is not able to provide our historical data. What should we do at this moment? The good point is, the

Speaker 1  1:34:37  
good point is, I do have some historical data in my local file. How can we use it? Run back, testing. Okay, and the another point is, what if

Speaker 2  1:34:58  
I download. Did historical data from other brokers not necessarily to use interactive broker at all, because their data is not stable. What should they do? Okay, then it means that we can download historical data somewhere, and then let me show you my historical data. Okay, okay, let me first show you how can I set up the back testing? Okay. The first the file name is the same, but this time, the data provider name change to local file. It just simply tells that tells average pad that I don't want to depends on any broker. They may not be able to give me any historical data at this moment. That's something I don't like, that I need to deal with. Okay? So I can use

Unknown Speaker  1:36:14  
my local data. So this time

Speaker 2  1:36:19  
I will give an end time, starting time. You can see it's old data, because that's the data I prepared long time ago. And you can see what I'm going to do is I want to ingest historical data, Spy, million bar data, but this time, I'm going to provide a file name, which is spy, 1 million data, 55 days. Okay? Because I change it to 50 days, and when I need the daily bar data, it tells average pad that I want to go to this file. But where is this file? Actually? This file is one of my local file. Let me open it for you. Is in ibridge pass folder. There's one folder called input. If you go to the folder of input and let me show you my data, I put it into right there. The data is right here. It has open, high, low, close, volume, and the first column is date, time, average. Python support different format of this column right now is just an epoch, second, actually, so just like that. And 55 days, it's not that too many. It's just simple file like this. Okay, so daily bar data is easy. How about the minimum bar data mining bar data is also in my local file. Looks like this, same format, open, hello, close, volume, timestamp. But you will see million bar will be kind of crazy. Wow, just a lot of data, because it's a million bar and I want to back test 50 days, so I need to have a lot of data, especially million bar data. And let me run it. Give you some feeling about back testing. Okay, oh, it works this time. Okay, let me quickly give you some feeling about what's going on there, so you can see data ingestion starts. It means average pi started to import some historical data. It comes in ingested history from file path. You can see, this is my local file, average pi, a folder called the input, and this is the file name, ingested hist for SP why daily bar from local file is exactly tells you, and then it tells you. The first line is this one, the last line is this, because it's just give you some feeling about what kind of historical data you have ingested so that you can make some raw, quick judgment on that. Then this is another file. It's a million bar data with this Minion bar and the first line, last line, it seems like it's ending about December 24, 2020, and then data ingestion, completed. Name of trading robot, some paper money. You can see, started. Simulation started. And you can see, oh, did that? Commission? Commission is there? Okay, good. So you can see the commission is $1.42 bought 200 285 shares. The price is 350 point 29 Okay, and the commission is that it's not that many commission, right? Okay, as I mentioned, this is, this is real IDs formula to calculate the commission in article, you can see it's not that many. Commission itself is very small, okay?

Speaker 1  1:40:48  
And it happens on that day. And you can see, sold, 285

Speaker 2  1:40:56  
bought again a few days sold. 208 days, bought, sold, bought, Oh, this one, it takes holding the position for pretty much long and sold again, bought, sold. And if you run this line, it will go to the log and create a account portfolio, and it will looks like that, and it will have an annualized sharp ratio based on the daily return. It's a long discussion. Let me go back to the question, Sri mentioned maybe weekend maintenance at IBM, exactly yes. So being mentioned in just the CSV file, exactly what we talked about. Any questions at this moment? Do

Speaker 1  1:42:07  
me, I can't find my workplace. Oh, workplace, right here. Okay, no question. That's good. Thank you.

Speaker 2  1:42:20  
It's a little bit long discussion. I promise you fun. Time is coming, okay, so we can see that we use data from any data providers. We don't rely on interactive broker at this moment. And the problem is actually we provided a lot of data, especially many in the bar data.

Speaker 1  1:42:56  
But do we really need that many,

Speaker 2  1:43:06  
that long list of minimum bar data probably not. Why? Not? Because we only care about 359, and 9pm Eastern Time, and we don't really care about other data, right? So many data are not used at all. What should we do? And actually our simulation every minute, every minute for the past 50 days, go through your trading robot, and what we really care is 359, and a lot of things are not used at all. How can we make it better? Because if we can specify each spot type we care about, our simulation can run much faster, so that let's go to the spot times. Spot times. Let me explain. What is that? If we go to the spot time, you will find out that

Unknown Speaker  1:44:39  
what we really care.

Speaker 2  1:44:43  
We still need to provide historical data. Okay, local file. The difference is this part, okay, so in this part, the goal of this part is to tell average time that the. Don't run every minute in the past 50 days. I only care about 359 so only run my trading robot at 359 every day. The way to tell average pad is that first you need to tell average pad that I want to customize time generator, okay, then provide a list called Custom spot Time list, and literally, it tells you that is a list. Then I want to specify each spot time that I care, for the trading robot to run I care from 2020 20 October 30 to 2020 December, 25 that's the time I care. And also because when I generate this time, it the hour and the minute will be 00, but I only care about 1559, so that I change it a little bit and put it into the list, so that way. Oh, that's really fast actually, because the robot only go through the spot time defined in this list. So the simulation runs really quick. Actually,

Speaker 1  1:46:41  
you can see that it's almost instantaneously you got this this graph, okay, and,

Speaker 2  1:46:59  
okay, that is about spot time. When we got spot time. The next part discussion is the

Speaker 2  1:47:16  
back test is much faster. What if million bars are not available? Why think about that? Not even if you have a professional data provider, they may not have daily bar as long as you need, as much as you need, especially considering, if you want to go back 20 years, they may not have million bar they may say, Okay, I won't only provide a million bar data for the past 10 years, but you really need past 20 years to run some simulation. What should you do? You just simply don't have it at all. Okay, oh, it's cost just too much. It's not worth your money to do that. What's the option? What can we how can we solve that problem? Okay? Then, the solution is to simulate by simulated by daily bars, okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:48:36  
simulated by daily bars. So,

Speaker 2  1:48:44  
okay, right there, simulated by daily parts. What does it mean? Let me explain you. File Name is same. Data provider is same, end time, start time, everything is same. The only thing changed is this part only here. What does it mean? Okay, so you can see, for this one, I don't simply have any minute bar data, but data source name equals to simulated by daily bars. What does it mean? It means that whenever average time need a minute bar data, it will be simulated by the close price of that day. So which means it will go to this file because it's daily bar, and it will go to that individual row and look for the close price and use it as if it is the minimum bar the. Later at that moment. Okay, it's a little bit long, but you got the point is to just simulate using the close time, close price of the daily bar.

Speaker 1  1:50:13  
Does it work? Yes, it will run later.

Speaker 2  1:50:18  
Yeah. It will be really fast, and the only thing you need is daily bar, because almost everywhere will give you a daily bar data, but most likely, you won't get any minute bar easily. Okay? Even Yahoo Finance, they will easily give you a daily bar, but it won't give you a minute bar later.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:49  
Long discussion about back testing, but

Speaker 2  1:50:53  
I like some fun time, because one of the question I still don't have an answer. The question is, can I make some money, right?

Speaker 1  1:51:07  
Okay, let's do something interesting. Okay, so assuming that it is a long only strategy, okay, long only strategy, okay, I want to use everything I have clean results, okay, I have daily bar data.

Speaker 2  1:51:46  
I have daily bar data. I don't provide any meaning bar data. Okay, I don't. I just use daily bar data because I literally don't have meaning bar data in the past 20 years. Okay, okay, and then what I want to know is, let me assume, from January 1, 2025, to today,

Speaker 1  1:52:12  
how much money I can make, if I'm running it as a long only strategy, what percentage

Speaker 2  1:52:25  
I can make. Okay, it's a game time. Finally, the best part I like is the game time. Anybody who want to guess what percentage we can make using this model from 2025 January 1 to today.

Speaker 1  1:52:51  
Anybody want to give a guess and see who is the winner? Just I, like

Unknown Speaker  1:53:02  
anybody. Want to play the game?

Speaker 2  1:53:05  
300% Naria, how about others? 25% from rock haven't done others? Only two players. It's really a fun time, trust me,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:20  
many candidate, 12% Akasha, 50% How about others?

Speaker 2  1:53:29  
Agree? 60% anybody else? 12345, Shriya, Shiva, Raj, 100% Sri Yes, benchmark return. Don't care about don't care about benchmark. Just for fun, to guess, using our model long only how much money we can get. I mean, it's 20% anybody else? Okay, let's run it.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:01  
You can still put your nine. You can still put your gas there, okay, okay, then

Unknown Speaker  1:54:09  
let me run everything. See the result. Matt, who's draw? Anna said, 30% okay,

Speaker 1  1:54:30  
what's the result? Oh, pretty fast, right. Okay, done. Oh, what's that?

Unknown Speaker  1:54:41  
There?

Speaker 1  1:54:49  
Roughly 18 or 17. Who is the winner? Who is the winner? Let me see who is the. Winner, with the Winner. Winner is amid,

Speaker 2  1:55:07  
amid data. You are the winner. Yeah, 20% okay,

Speaker 1  1:55:15  
okay, let me change the model a little bit. Okay, let me change model to be.

Speaker 2  1:55:26  
Let me open. Let me change it a little bit, a little bit. Let me change it to a long and short,

Unknown Speaker  1:55:37  
long and short,

Speaker 2  1:55:41  
so put your number next game. What if we change it to long and short? What's the return?

Unknown Speaker  1:55:55  
Okay, let me change it to minus. Okay. Long and short,

Speaker 2  1:56:09  
a new game, new game, new game. Long and short, because if you read the news, you will know that spy, the average return of spy was 16% for last year. Spy long, buy and hold spy for the last year, you will get 16% okay, but you don't know what. If we change it to long and short, what will happen is that good or bad? You can keep putting your number there. Let me run it

Unknown Speaker  1:56:49  
to see the result.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:55  
Oh, okay, many input, many input. Okay, let's see how it runs.

Speaker 1  1:57:03  
Well, this one doesn't change. What's going on. It should change right demo, buy low, sell high. Say, when you see, yeah, similar. Even worse, you see

Speaker 2  1:57:25  
it changed, bought 171 sold. You see 343 which means it does long and short, right, long and short, long, okay, so the correct roughly is a little bit worse, Right? It's roughly 15%

Unknown Speaker  1:57:55  
15% who's the winner? Wow. I

Speaker 1  1:58:06  
Maria, right? You got 15%

Speaker 2  1:58:15  
similar. Seems like this model doesn't work well, at least not better than buy and hold spy, right?

Speaker 2  1:58:39  
Okay, no comments. Everybody? No comments. Is silent, maybe a little bit disappointed. Okay, let's change it a little bit. Let's change it a little bit. Let's change it to this. How about that?

Unknown Speaker  1:58:59  
Anybody another game.

Speaker 2  1:59:02  
What if we have we changed it from 2020, January, 1 to today. How about that? How about that?

Speaker 1  1:59:16  
Anybody want to put your guess? Okay, 15% anybody just take your time to put in your gas here, and let's run it again to see the result.

Speaker 2  1:59:36  
So even if it runs for the past five years, you will see the runs pretty quick, actually, pretty quick. Just keep running. You you can put in your number. I really don't know the answer. Actually, I didn't run it. And the answer is, wow, oh.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:01  
Wow, how many?

Unknown Speaker  2:00:10  
What's that? Wow, that's really good, right? It's about 200% Yeah, it just should be

Speaker 2  2:00:27  
yes three times, yes three times. But is that the 200% growth? Right? We need to 300% minus 100% so the growth

Unknown Speaker  2:00:39  
will be 200%

Speaker 2  2:00:41  
so that sounds pretty good in the five years, and you got three times and 200% Return, it's pretty good, right?

Speaker 2  2:00:59  
Okay, okay, the final game. The final game. Final game. This time, let's go back to see

Unknown Speaker  2:01:12  
20 years. Let's zero point. Let's say this one. Go back the last 15 years,

Speaker 1  2:01:25  
15 years of the last game before our second second break. Okay, let me run it to see how it goes.

Speaker 2  2:01:39  
Okay. Anybody want to put some number. I want to read it out this time the region said 500%

Unknown Speaker  2:01:48  
I assume it's percent. Okay, money can then said 250%

Speaker 2  2:01:53  
Oh, you're too conservative. You're too conservative. How about others? The last game, Okay, last game, last game. A grim said that 1,000% okay. Rock have said 650 Shiva Raji, 1,000%

Speaker 1  2:02:15  
mad hazu, Hana, 300%

Unknown Speaker  2:02:22  
Shriya, sria said, 100% only 100%

Speaker 1  2:02:29  
let me see the result. Okay, let me see Wow. What's that? Okay about

Unknown Speaker  2:02:41  
Okay? Who is the winner?

Speaker 1  2:02:48  
Who is the winner? Who is the winner? To be in oh man, who? Suhana, who is the winner,

Speaker 2  2:03:01  
I don't remember who is the winner. Okay, anyway, anyway, as long as you have fun, I feel good. Do you

Unknown Speaker  2:03:11  
have fun? Yes or no.

Speaker 1  2:03:19  
Nobody answer. Okay, okay, good, good, good, good, okay, okay, okay, let's have some

Speaker 2  2:03:26  
Okay, so being asked such strategies realistic, I will say close to realistic. That's it's hard to say in the future, but based on our discussion, is looks more normal, okay, it's look probably I will. I will only say it's probably close to the true Okay, okay. Seven minute break. I will answer other questions. Thank you. Thank.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:08  
Hello, can you hear me?

Speaker 2  2:13:14  
Hello, yeah, good, good. Okay, there's one question from Manny can so the question is, should we compare C, A, gr, for better understanding, or it doesn't matter. Okay, so there are so many things you can compare, actually, CA, dr, or any other indicator you feel comfortable, one thing we can quickly check is annualized Sharpe ratio, 0.8 by the way, this is based on daily data. It's not weekly or monthly. Typically, if you see some Sharpe ratio is based on monthly data, but this one is annualized, sharp ratio based on daily data. Okay, 0.8 you will feel a little bit disappointed. Actually, 0.8 is not that as big as we thought, but considering buy and hold spy is about 0.4 something, if using the same formula, and it's pretty much doubled buy and hold buy and hold spy. So roughly, if you go back spy, buy and hold spy should be something here, my estimation should be something here. Okay, like that. So you will see somebody asked, Is that realistic? I will see this one probably close to the true value about this model already, which means our model might be a little bit under feeding. But it's pretty close to a good feeling. I will say this way. Okay, let me stop here and let me stop here, stop sharing and come back to the PowerPoint we have, not this one,

Speaker 1  2:15:29  
wow, hold on a little bit. It's just too many screen. I need to manage it in a better way. It's right there. Okay,

Speaker 2  2:15:44  
let's continue this. Okay, so the next part is Moving Average crossover. If you have finished the prerequisite, you will be feel that is redundant, but for you who has not, then it will be a little bit hard. Okay, let me just quickly explain what's going on in this one. This example, I didn't use Schedule function, but I literally handle the date time to make it happen for from to trade Monday to Friday, and make it to trade at 1559, Eastern Time. The reason for that is considering, if you are not a US trader, for example, you're Indian and you're trading Indian market. How can you tune it to feed Indian market? That is the way to handle it, like get data time and use some weekday hour minute to define your market. That is the reason I want to show you the next step is to handle errors for live trading. What errors should you expect in live trading? If you have not done that, it will be hard to imagine. Let me show you a little bit example. The first one is, user has no permission to access data. What does it mean? It means it means that, for example, interactive broker, they the user, need to purchase their data package to access data. So it will you will see that there's no permission to accept it or something like that. Though, you need to call brokers representative to ask for the permission or purchase a package. Okay? They they just charge you something. Next is, the market is not open. What does it mean? It means if you want to get a real time price, you still get some real time price, but it's not that fresh. Will that cause some trouble? Probably depends on your use case, so you need to be careful that when you use real time price, remember to check the time step of the real time price to make sure it's fresh enough for your case. The next one is request historical data too often. What does it mean? Most of the data providers or trade brokers, they have a hard limit on how many historical data you can request, because they don't want to you to, okay, you know, damage their server. So you should not request historical data too often. If you did, then probably you don't need to. You need to optimize your log algorithm actually so minimize request. Next one is no enough margin to place orders some first. It depends on the nature of your account. You may not be able to sell it and then place order, place others again immediately. Maybe it takes one day to settle, but in your code, you should use some try except to catch the error and handle it properly. The next one is other statuses and no what does it mean? It means if you place a limit order, if you don't do anything, you may not know if your order has been filled or not. In every type you should use other status monitor to follow. Up on the other status and then continue your algorithm. Okay, next is Moving Average crossover, because a lot is the most famous strategy, and we want to make some modifications or improvement so that it can be used for a live trading. The examples are like this, handle holidays, handle market early close, send out the email notification, handle market exceptions during live trading and change it to minimum bar strategy

Speaker 2  2:20:44  
to handle holidays is relatively easy for us traders, because there is a function called is trading name you just simply Call it will return true or false. If it's not, then you can just simply return a handle data, and then it will work. The next one is to handle market early clubs. It's a little bit hard to handle. What is early close in US market the whole year, typically there are three or four days, trading days the market close at 1pm eastern time, instead of 4pm Eastern Time.

Speaker 1  2:21:40  
Does me? Does it make a lot of difference? It depends.

Speaker 2  2:21:46  
Sometimes do cause some trouble. Sometime, no, it depends on your use case. But for early, for our Moving Average crossover, it definitely will cause some trouble, because all of your logic handles The market data at 359,

Unknown Speaker  2:22:16  
instead of instead of 1259, 1259,

Speaker 2  2:22:23  
so that is something we need to handle. How to handle it? Let me give you example,

Unknown Speaker  2:22:30  
moving average Passover. Hold on, a little bit. Oh.

Speaker 1  2:22:44  
Okay, where is my Jupiter notebook?

Speaker 2  2:22:53  
Hold on a little bit. I'm looking for it because I accidentally closed my Drupal, notable, no, I

Speaker 1  2:23:31  
Okay, got it. Moving Average, crossover, crossover, right there, moving over to close, one early close, right there, okay,

Speaker 2  2:23:51  
okay, so to handle early close is a little bit hard. Let me show you. So I need to add a flat to say is today early close. The default is false because most of time is not then I want to run a check to check if today is an early close. So I scheduled it at 10am and am in the morning, actually, because to check if it's early close is a kind of expensive function, so I don't want to run it very often. I just want to run it once, and the result will be saved in this function and this parameter variable, and then to label it or I already run it once. I don't want to change it too many, and then I need to handle the logic like this is, today is not a trading day. Just simply return. If it is early close, then handle early close, otherwise, handle regular close. If it's an early close, I want to make my trading decision at 1259, Eastern Time. Then make trading decisions. If it's a regular close, I want to handle it at a 1559, Eastern Time and to trigger the make decision function. The function of make trading decisions are exactly same as before, but when to trigger it, I have to do a little bit of logic about it. Okay, so that is a small thing in the calendar, but I do need to take extra effort to handle it correct. Okay, that is something I have to handle. Next one is if, after this one, oh, send out an email. So the use case is like this. I want to know my account balance after the market is closed every day, assuming you decide to run your trading robot continuously, which means I don't want to touch it at all, but send out an email to tell give me a quick summary. Okay, let me go to that file

Unknown Speaker  2:26:49  
to show you how to do it. To

Speaker 2  2:26:57  
send out the email itself is pretty straightforward, but you need to decide when to do it. In this example, I decided to do send out email at 1630 instead of 16 on the dot, because it always takes some time for brokers to make a decision on the final close price. It takes time so that I want to send out the email at 1630 Okay, so this function is that if it's not a trading day, then I just say it's not a trading day. The function is sent email. If it is a trading day, I'm going to use a function called Show account information. What I'm care, really care about is net liquidation amount, which is the overall balance liquidation price. Got this one and put the email title, email body, you can customize and to email so it will solve the problem. The next one is handle market exception. What kind of exception? So what if anything wrong during placing order? What I decided to do is just simply ignore the error, but send out the email notification and keep the code running. Of course, maybe I feel that it's not that critical. I just want to, you know, see what's going on and then just let it go. That is the use case, how to make it happen. So this time, send out the email handle error. Oh, this is a handle error. So I still have a trading early handle, handle early close, handle email notification. But this time I change this part a little bit. I added a try, except I want to place order and use other status monitor to follow other follow up on order status. But if something failed, I want to send out the emails that something is wrong today and put the error in the email body and send it to me, because I try except the. So my trading robot will continuously run. So that is the way to not stop a trading robot. The next one is, what if I'm trying, what if I want to change the Moving Average crossover to every minute instead of every day. Why do I want to do that? Because if you want to run it every day is kind of boring, because you need to wait even months to have a Moving Average crossover signal. It's really boring, actually, so I want to, if I switch to Moving Average crossover every minute, I will see multiple signals, even in one trading day, okay, so that you will see more things happening, let me show you how to change it.

Unknown Speaker  2:31:14  
The difference is

Speaker 2  2:31:18  
this part, what I'm doing is change the frequency of the function of handle data. The default value is one, which means handle data will be triggered every second, but this time, I change it to every 62nd which means handle data function will be triggered every minute.

Unknown Speaker  2:31:48  
Another thing I changed is

Speaker 2  2:31:52  
I changed the wrong model to regular because typically, the traditional way to run handle data is to only run it while the market is open, but this time, I just want to run handle data every minute, continuously, and ignoring any market time so I can literally handle the data. Date time as I want, for example, I still want to trade from 930 to 4pm then I can add this part so that my strategy will only be run from 930 to 16. This is a really good example for traders outside the US, so that you can use this way to handle to tune your trading robot. Okay, the next part is an example about converting academic paper into a trading robot. You can download this paper and check out the implementation. So this is another example about converting academic paper to a trading robot.

Speaker 1  2:33:31  
Okay, next is something new.

Speaker 2  2:33:45  
This part is about options. Option trader, a lot of traders are interested in options and average pi, the base version is free, but there are some premium features are not free. However, please do not share this passcode outside iPad, because with this passcode, average, pi will enable you to the premium feature, and it will work three months from now. And the worst one, it worth $120 also, if you want to use ibridge pi to finish your ePad projects, please contact with your iPad assistant for passcode extension so that we can make sure you will finish your iPad projects, even if it's longer than three months. Okay, I will talk about a few features, Option Chains. Is stock screeners, because someone asked me question, how can we build a stock screener? That is the way stock screener, and also trading option using Greek. The first one is a stock screener. Example. The goal is to hold 10 most active stocks in the market. Each of it holds for 10% of portfolio, assuming that account does not have any positions. It's just example, actually. And what is that for? By most active, right there.

Speaker 2  2:35:55  
Okay, by most active, what do you need to get a scanner results. This is a market scanner. You need to put something to define you, the universe like this. One is us, stocks. The scan code is most active. How can I get these two critical strings? Actually, if you go to Interactive Brokers documentation or use their native stock screener, you will see these two keywords most active also it provides another commonly used feature is to limit the price, because a lot of penny stocks may be very active, but you don't want to touch it at All. So we have about price $100 and also just return top 10. So all it will give will give you some top 10 most active stocks, if their current price is about $100

Unknown Speaker  2:37:19  
the return will

Speaker 2  2:37:20  
be appended data frame. It has two columns. One is called rank, the other one is called security. The rank the top one is zero, so it seems like spy is the most active one at that moment, so that you can use it to put into the other function and continue so make things very easy.

Speaker 2  2:37:56  
The next one is, assuming you want to trade Indian market. What can you do, especially trading options in Indian market? So here I'm giving you an example about how to find the correct information about a contract at Interactive Brokers. For example, I want to look for nifty 50 index option. Actually, this is opt means option for this one 2017 November, almost nine years ago. Wow, okay, and at that moment, the strike price is, what's that? 10 110? $10,300 No, not dollars. Actually, the currency is Indian rupee, and the direction is put. So you found out this information, symbol, name, sector, primary exchange, base, currency exchange and the price incremental. Be careful about that. If you put the wrong price it, you will get some error. Then what you need to do is use I prefer function called super simple to define everything you need to get a correct definition so that you can trade it. If you are an option trader, very, very likely you want to get an option chance, very likely. Typically, what you want to do is filter options which has x very closest to a target date time. Typically, you will find the nine. Out because it will be a very active option, and it will have more opportunities than the dormant options. And typically you want to filter the options which has a strike price closest to a target strike price, very likely is the current underlying stock price, because, based on the expiry in strike price, very likely you will find the most active option how to do it. Okay, is relatively simple in average pi is to get option chance. Let me show you how to get option chance in average pack, you will find it's really simple.

Speaker 2  2:41:00  
Get Option Chains is just get contract details. If you put the option Apple summary will give you all of options, base currency exchange, primary exchange, for example, you just want to call the direction of call, then the return will be appended state of frame. It will only have one column called the security. It will list, if you list it, it will give you all of the options.

Unknown Speaker  2:41:36  
And there are two functions you can use is okay? Actually, you can filter it

Speaker 2  2:41:46  
by filter options, by closest expiry. This is apply function. As I mentioned. You will put a target time. Now you will get a filter list. Then there are another function is called The Future filter options by closest strike price and give it a target strike price. Then you will get a final filtered list of Option Chains. Very likely that is what you need. Let me check if there are any questions. No, okay, got Greece bricks is something tells you about the dynamics of options. What do you need to do is very simple. Your average pi is to call a function called option info. Get option info. And for example, you are interested in Delta, Gamma, Vega, theta, implied volatility. You provide a list of the names of Greeks, and it will return you those values in the dictionary. Next one is, oh, high frequency trading. High Frequency Trading. The the overall recommendation is, do not get involved into high frequency trading. If you are a regular trader, common trader, don't get into that. That is the overall recommendation, because there are so many considerations the regular trader cannot overcome that's a big they are the big hurdles. It's not easy for regular traders, so don't get into it at all. What are those considerations, internet latencies. You need a super fast, even a direct channel to get into trade, trading center, high performance, CPU, enough memory, really, really, really fast algorithm written in C and you need very, very stable tick by tick data and extremely low transaction cost. Regular traders do not have any. Founder actually very likely, so don't even get into high frequency trading as a regular trader. The next one is how to manage multiple account if you are a fund manager in average pi, it's relatively easy, considering you will generate one signal, but you want to distribute your positions to different accounts. For example, you want to buy 100 shares in account number one, but by 500 shares, yeah, account number two, using the same signal, what you can do without a proper tooling that will be not an easy task for a fund manager, but if you're using every time, it will be really simple, because every function related to place order, you can provide account number there. So if you put account number one there, you can see 100 shares, and put 500 shares for account number two. Same thing here, so you can exit the position use account number one, account number two. The key point here is

Speaker 2  2:46:42  
those accounts should be that linked account to your master portfolio account is a really helpful feature for fund managers, because very, very likely, after become a fund manager, you need to manage, manage multiple accounts. You really need a good tooling for that. Okay, okay, there's one question from Sri Yas, how to simulate options trade with different between RV and IV, that's good question. Actually, there's really no good way to simulate that because that's something extra. Actually, you really don't have a very good way. So Forward, forward testing will be your will be the only choice to me, actually, it's not an easy, easy way, okay. Otherwise, you need to come up your own back tester to provide that number actually, okay, it's specific to option traders, actually. The next one is deployment. I remember last session, somebody asked the difference between a cloud solution or a local solution. These are the considerations, okay, if you have a local computer compared to a computer in cloud, for example, AWS, GCP, Microsoft, Azure, something like, we call it computer in cloud, or you purchase a host and place it somewhere, get it connected the internet. That is something. I call it local, okay, okay, oral, the cost

Speaker 1  2:49:01  
to deploy a local computer is cheaper than a cloud computer,

Speaker 2  2:49:08  
typically for longer term. Okay, so this is might be a cheaper solution. However, you need to manage power and internet and related utilities self managed, so you need to be careful about that part. For example, you may need to consider a power backup, a battery or some backup internet if you feel that is really, really, really critical, or you need to think about another alternative is, what if there's no any internet? Can you place others by phone, something like that as a backup plan? Okay, that is something you need to consider. You. But considering a cloud computer, typically, providers claim 99.99 uptime. So the chance of your host in cloud running without power is very, very low. Okay. Downtime is rare. I would say it happens, but it's rare. Okay, for deployment, for development, typically, working on a local computer is much easier. Instead of you need to push code to remote and do something there is not that simple. I won't say simple as just you need to do a little bit of step the local development. Typically, you you will buy a big disk storage on your local local computer, and typically you need to pay for storage in cloud. So it's cost resources. You have the full resources on your local local computer, but you will have a shared computer in cloud, which means you want more computing power, you need to pay more but it's relatively easy to buy a relatively powerful computer, Typically privacy if you deploy amplify in your local and in cloud, you always have full privacy, so you control everything. The next one is as a local computer. You can install Mac, you can install Windows or even some any other operating system you like, but typically you just only have a few options for a cloud computer, so you need to consider all of these things to deploy Your final solution. Next is the summary of two sessions, so average pack can help you trade any security or commodities that IB offers. And IB offers multiple markets, US market, you, Euro market, Indian market, China market. IB is really a provide a lot of opportunities for you, okay, and they also offer Forex or a lot of things. Ibreakpack can help you handle multiple accounts at same time. That will be really, really useful after you become a fund manager, you can use average five with any Python packages, AI packages, machine learning packages, install your local computer and work with average pack. Average pack can handle tick by tick data, but don't get it into high frequency trading, even if average pay is able to handle that, average pay has a developed tool, and it can be used for back testing, and we have showed you different back testing strategies. So average buy is designed to be flexible and easy use. If you understand average pie, you can go to any other algorithm, trading tools. It will be very, very similar. Actually, as long as you understand the logic, it will be pretty easy

Speaker 2  2:53:58  
for you to catch up on any algorithm trading tools. So that is the end of today's session. There are still six minutes. I know there will be a lot of questions, so I want to reserve some time for you to ask me questions. Zubin asked security firewalls, so I assume you're talking about deployment local versus cloud, right? So if you deploy it in your local, then you need to take care of security firewalls, any other security measures if you deploy in cloud, every cloud provider will give you. Some basic tools, firewalls, protocol, filters, a lot of things you need to configure them to fit your need. And sometimes it can be very complex. Sometimes it can be very simple. It purely up to it up to your it's up to you to how to configure it actually, okay. Next is shriyas as a good question, using AI bot versus rent coder. It's a really good question. Let me give you my

Unknown Speaker  2:55:46  
my my logic. So AI bot is very powerful,

Speaker 2  2:55:54  
but it make a lot of mistakes. So it come back to the final question is, Are you a professional programmer? If you are, then of course, you can use AI bot to help you make most of the code. Write most of the code, you review it, point out errors, make some fix okay, if you are professional programmer, and if you are not, I don't recommend anyone to spend too much time on coding, because that is a professional job. I really want traders to think about algorithms instead of coding, because coding needs some professional to take care of it. If you are a serious fund manager, you should partner with somebody you trust. That's my recommendation, okay? So you can have more time to think about algorithm, to research something like that, or even reach out to customers, let others to handle coding part. Okay, that's my my recommendation question from Shu ham. Shu ham, how to do conclusion, whether to model will make money or not. There's no crystal ball to tell you will model make money or not, as I spend a lot of time talking about overfitting and under feeding,

Speaker 1  2:57:56  
if your model is reasonably good fitting,

Speaker 2  2:58:06  
then you have higher chance to make money in a real market. But one thing you need to remember is, if you cannot make money in your mathematical model, you will not make money in real market. That is the baseline. Okay. So, as I explained at this first session, what you need to do is first

Unknown Speaker  2:58:41  
either fundamental analysis or quantitative analysis.

Speaker 2  2:58:46  
Collect data to prove everything, change it to a trading robot. Run back, testing, wrong, forward testing, and use a small real money account. Run it, you will have some feeling. Definitely, you will you will know that it will either make money or not okay. And as long as it run a little bit longer time, you will have a feeling that how good it will be, but maybe you are unlucky to meet a special market. Okay, it may happen, but you need to understand the logic from the fundamental to understand is, should I trust more on my model or the market is not right for the model? You need to make a judgment using some mathematical tools. Okay, do. I know it's not a straight answer, but I tried my best to give you some considerations.

Unknown Speaker  3:00:10  
Any other questions?

Speaker 2  3:00:17  
If no more question, that's the end of today's session and the end of two sessions from me. I really hope you enjoy the game at least. I know the last hour I talked a lot, it's not that fun, but there's something I need to explain to you, and I really hope

Unknown Speaker  3:00:38  
you enjoy at least

Speaker 2  3:00:41  
the guessing game actually? Okay? Thank you so much. There will be a short survey at the end of this session, please, please give me some feedback. I'm looking forward to hear from you. I hope you can give me a five star. But any anything you you write, I really appreciate that. Thank you so much. Have a Good morning. Good evening. I don't know which time zone you are anyway, have a good

Unknown Speaker  3:01:15  
day. By the way, if

Speaker 2  3:01:16  
you happen to visit San Jose, California, you can drop me an email. I love to meet you in person. Thank you. Thank you very much. Bye, bye. You.

