Speaker 1  0:07  
Okay, good morning everyone. Well, it's morning for me. I imagine for a lot of you, it isn't. We usually have some people who are joining from fairly unusual places, so it's probably a whole bunch of different time zones, although I suppose most of you are in the are in India, actually, okay, so we've just moved to zoom from a different system, and I haven't used zoom on this well, I've used zoom for a while, and it's all changed. So if you can hear me, could someone type something into the questions panel just to make sure that everything's good. All right? Sweet. Thank you very much. I think we're all good. Someone from the UK. Sweet, okay, so the interesting thing about the question panel is that it it scrolls to the doesn't scroll to the bottom automatically. Okay, so I'm going to have to remind myself to keep doing that manually. Okay, so I think we're good to go other than that, I guess I should start with the questions. While we're talking about questions, please type in anything you come up with, I will answer all the questions. I can't guarantee, however, to answer the questions exactly when you ask them, when I answer them would depend on where, if they may fit in better somewhere else, or it may be an answer that is too nuanced, too complicated, too involved to deal with in the live session, in which case, email the organizers and I will get back to you. That's the way we like to do it, so they've got the questions on record so we can improve things going forward. So I'm always pleased to answer questions. I love answering questions. This is what I like thinking about, what I like talking about. So don't worry about asking anything at all, including going forward in perpetuity, I guess. So. I guess you can also find me on LinkedIn, although that's not the preferred way of doing things, because, like I say, the organizers like to have things on record, and furthermore, I hardly ever check LinkedIn, so it won't work out as well for you either, right? Other sort of admin stuff before we start. Oh yeah, okay, this is a three hour session, so we're going to take a break after the first hour, and then again, after the second hour for like five minutes, just do whatever, grab a coffee or whatever you need to do. Okay, so, having said all that, I think we're ready to go. Okay, so you'll see here in the title. Well before you get to the title, a little bit about me. My name is Ewan Sinclair. I've been in the options world since 1995 I did a PhD in physics, Graduated, went to work in the city of London, which was a fairly it wasn't common, but that was the way people got into quantitative analysis back then, there were no MFE courses. There were no courses like this. Basically, you did a degree in physics or engineering and then you were given a copy of the one book that existed at the time and told to figure it out on your own. So the world has changed quite a bit since then. So in the in the next 30 years, I have been a market maker, I've been a prop trader, I've traded for my own account, I've traded at hedge funds, I've traded at investment banks. So I've pretty much done the gamut of everything. So hang on a second. So tabs on top of PowerPoint is blocking the PowerPoint. What does that mean? So is the PowerPoint being? Which PowerPoint are you seeing? You're seeing just the thing that says, just the presentation screen. Furthermore, does this move the presentation screen?

Speaker 1  4:27  
Okay, so from a virtual show of hands, I guess, is the power is this thing that says option trading you and Sinclair completely visible and nothing else visible. Or is there a whole bunch of garbage? Oh, are you seeing or are you seeing the Zoom stuff at the top? Is that the issue? Okay, so good. The Zoom stuff at the top, if you see that, it's not covering anything. Okay. So back to me a bit. I've worked pretty much doing most things. I'm currently working at an ETF. Provider. We run a actively traded equity ETF, and I do the volatility stuff in there, so, and I also run a bunch of Prop strategies and supervise those. So, yeah, that's me. Okay, so back to the course. There's two words in this title, there's option and trading. Of these, by far the most important word is trading. You cannot be an options trader without first being a trader. There's nothing magical about options. You're not going to make money because you found out about options. You're going to make money because you know how to trade, and the thing you will trade is options. So always come back to that. We're not doing these things because they're theoretically interesting. We are doing them because they have unique characteristics, which means we can make money. So before we talk about the unique characteristics, we're going to talk about what it is in general you need to know and do to be a trader. And this, I think, is this courses USP, there are plenty of other places where you'll find out about how to program in R or Python or run back tests or price options. These things are necessary, but they are not going to be the differentiating factor between you and someone else in terms of who makes it as a trader. So here we're going to focus very much on the trading unapologetically, I'm not going to mention Python. Again, we're not going to talk about how to do simulations or anything. Again, that's not not important, but that's not what I think is the most important thing for you to do before you think about anything else. So just keep that in the back of your mind. That's the most important takeaway. Hang On a second. I

Speaker 1  7:40  
Okay? So the first slide would seem like purely a legal thing for protecting me, and that's sort of the main purpose of it, just a disclaimer saying I'm going to talk to you about things, and I'll give examples about things that are real trades, and everything I talk about in terms of a trade is a trade I either do now or have done and am not doing now because probably I'm not allowed to because of compliance or the mandate I'm working under. I'm telling you things that have worked, or I believe do work, that is a, no way a recommendation for you to go out and do it, because I'm not a financial advisor here. I don't all of your all of your situations are going to be different. So I'm not saying the things I'm telling you won't work, but I am saying, I'm not saying, I'm putting my hands up saying, if you do them all the risk is on you, and there is considerable risk with everything involving options trading. Furthermore, there's a learning thing for you here. What is considered legal and ethical differs greatly from market to market. So for example, in the in the there were certain trading pits on the floor, back when the floor was a real thing, where it was considered perfectly normal for you to basically lie to the brokers about what you wanted to do. That was considered like a game theory technique. No one thought any the less of you, and if you didn't do that, you wouldn't be able to compete in that market. Whereas there were other markets where everything was completely above board, completely honest. If you said anything that was remotely untrue, no one would ever do a trade with you ever again. So sociology of the individual markets is a real thing, and it's an important thing. What is also important for you to know is that you are never going to be able to work out what is legal through first principles that basically doesn't exist. So what you have to do whenever you think of doing a new strategy or a new trade or. Executing something in a slightly different way, basically changing anything operationally. Get permission from your manager or your compliance officer or someone above you, and get it in writing. Do it through an email chain. If you do this and you have a documented chain of people you have asked and permission you have got, even if what turns out later on to be wrong in some way, you should be fine. So that's the most important thing, is always cover yourself first. And like I said, there are no sensible rules in any of this, and even within the same jurisdiction, there are some things that can be argued convincingly, is legal or illegal? We're having this very big discussion right now with two different brokers, and we want to put the same order type in for each at each broker, one of them is absolutely convinced what we're doing is illegal. The other one is absolutely convinced it's it's not, it's not. So these are professionals with lawyers, and they completely disagree on this. So don't, don't think there are any rules that will make sense to you. In advance, always cover yourself first. And if you're in the markets long enough, you absolutely will do something that is going to run you a foul of some authority or other. You just have to do your best. It's obviously there is a spectrum here from illegally fixing the LIBOR rate, which will get you sent to prison, and putting it leaving an order in the market, thinking you've canceled it, and later on trading with yourself by accident, which is the thing that I did, that gets you a slap on the risk, and you're told, please don't do that again. But we understand these things happen, so it will happen.

Speaker 1  11:59  
Okay? So the major takeaways I want you to get from this session is that options trading is, most importantly, an operation of trading. It is not about options. There's no magic thing about any financial instrument that you may trade which will give you the which will make you money just because of it. And you see this a lot in the sort of YouTube level of options trading, where someone will say, just do this structure and you will make money. So I don't know it's going to involve you selling a put and buying another put and selling a call and then doing this thing every month as a as an algorithm, as a rotational thing, every month you do the same thing. It doesn't work like that. And it's very easy to get seduced into that thinking because of the way options are set up and all the different parameters and all the different combinations you can do. But if you don't have an actual valuation edge, at some point you're not going to make money. So just always keep that in mind. There's nothing magic about options next. Trading is largely about making a correct observation of something that is true and then quantifying it with a model or some sort of mathematical method, be it, you know, regression or machine learning or whatever, you won't get the magic from the method. You get the magic from the observation. And I'm going to come back and harp on this a whole bunch of times, but right now, just remember, when I say observation, I'm not saying it's the result, necessarily, the result of some statistical test or some computer output of some model. I'm saying literally, it's an observation, if you just see something and note, ha, that's weird, like stocks go up in the last five minutes of the of the month, huh? Just that thing. And when I say stocks go up, I'm not talking about they go up more than a standard deviation. I'm not talking about they go up above some magic level. I'm saying no, when you look at a screen and look at the price chart, you see them go up. There's nothing different about trading in this regard compared to any other profession or art or science. Experience does matter. It's got to be the right kind of experience. But if you knowing things, knowing what the normal thing is, is very important. Someone asked about is trading more about emotional management and observation. It is definitely about observation. I'm going to come back to the emotional management part in a second. So let me get back to that. Okay, when you come up with a trading idea, and you've gone through the observation from the observation, and then you've gone through the models and you quantified it, you should always remember that a simple and robust idea. So a simple model, a simple quantification, is almost always going to be better than a complicated one. When it breaks, it'll be easier for you to see why it breaks, as opposed to a so a linear regression is much easier to diagnose than some neural net or other machine learning technique. I'm not saying don't use those, but start simple and use the simplest thing you can get away with. And this is not a justification for only learning about the simple things, but it is a general principle that you should keep in mind. And this isn't about, yeah, if you Jim Simons, who ran Renaissance, which is the one of the most successful hedge funds of all time, is on record as saying most the most common tool they use is linear regression, just OLS. Obviously they don't stop with that, but that's the thing they use as their first check of is this going wrong. This is a little bit like tech industry. If you've got an idea, it's better for you to prove it wrong quickly and move on to the next idea. You shouldn't spend a ton of time getting an idea to work by wrestling with the technique. If it doesn't work on a simple level, it probably won't work at all. If it works on a simple level, you can add to it, but start simple and get more complicated, and be very clear here, most of the things you do and most of the ideas you have won't work. This isn't a reflection on you. This is just a reflection on the markets. This is the way it is. So you sort of get used to that.

Speaker 1  17:02  
And finally, there are no hard and fast rules about how you should trade or or the way trading should work. There are these principles, but there are no rules. So it's kind of trading in that sense, is more like punk rock than classical music. You'll sometimes hear people say, oh, you can't do this. You can't do that. And your answer should be, why not? If it works, we can use it. So an example I want to give you is, I have a system which I'm sort of running off and on right now, again, because of the complication of fitting it in around other things, not because it doesn't work. Where I trade options on equities using fundamental information like price to earnings and profitability and leverage all that kind of stuff. Some people have told me you can't trade short term options based on these long term characteristics of the stock you can and if I'd listen to those people, we would never have done it. So don't be afraid to try stuff, even if it seems silly. There are no you can't do this rules. Or if you keep in mind these other other principles? Okay, so today, in the course, what we're going to be doing is we're going to be going through a general options trading philosophy, which is actually just really a general trading philosophy. We're going to be talking about the two big trading principles you need to understand, which is edge and risk, very briefly, how to make money and how to keep money. We're going to talk about the efficient market hypothesis, which may seem like a crazy thing to talk about in a course where I'm talking about how to make money, but trust me, it isn't. We're going to be talking about finding edge how to convert that observation into, or how to make that observation, and how to convert that observation into something that will make money, in a practical sense. Because, remember, an observation is not a strategy, and a strategy is not a business, an implementable business. All of these things going from observation through development, through implementation, they're all different things that all have to get done. And then finally, we are going to talk a bit about this emotional management stuff. And we're going to be talking about how to sort of coach yourself through the inevitable psychological barriers that you will find okay.

Speaker 1  19:49  
So when people come into the markets, there are two general mistakes they make when they. Start. The first is this guy on the left who thinks there's edge everywhere. He thinks it's easy to find ways to make money, and he can watch a YouTube video, he can follow with three people on Twitter or whatever that cesspit is called now, and it's easy to make money, he'll be fine. You don't have to put in a lot of work. It's like, Ha, here is this one crazy trick that will make money in the markets. This is absolutely not true. This guy will fail because he is trying to monetize edges that don't exist in the first place. So he's just going to rack up transaction costs. He's going to just be churning. He's wrong. It is not easy to come up with ways to make money. On the other end, there is the theorist. There is this guy who probably comes from a science background, or more, more commonly now, an engineering background. He thinks this guy is an idiot. He's right about that. This guy is an idiot, but he thinks, using his intelligence, he can find a way to outsmart the market, and the market way too difficult for a normal person to make money. You've got to be some sort of tech genius. This guy thinks he's a tech genius. He's going to think of the market as something he can out theorize, we're going to come up with some model where it might be a model for trading stocks. It might be, in our case, some sort of volatility prediction model, and using that one model, he's going to make money for the rest of his life. This guy is completely wrong as well. So whenever you have, whenever you have a picture like this, where you have two people making mistakes on either end, it's a pretty good bet that there's going to be a sweet spot in the middle where we want to be. And in this case, oops. In this case, that is, in fact, true. We want to be this guy in the middle. We want to be the guy who's like, no, it is difficult to make money, but it's not impossible. You have to realize and always keep in mind that the market isn't a set of numbers that come from nowhere. The market is the result of a lot of people trading on their own, based on their own, different opinions. Some people will be buying, some people will be selling. It's never a case of everyone's buying. That can't possibly happen for the people to buy. They have to be people to sell. So the market is competitive, adaptive system, and any any idea you come up with, therefore also has to be adaptive. You won't find something that works forever. So you have to remember, there are humans behind the trades that we're doing. So we want to keep things as robust as possible, to find things that work in general, and then we will make those things behave in an adaptive manner. So we're going to orient our trading around obvious, indisputable observations. Now what counts as obvious and indisputable is going to change depending on exactly how you're trading. If you're trading as a retail trader on your own or, you know, in a small group, you're not going to have the fastest technology, you're not going to have access to OTC Markets. You're going to have to trade in the public markets. In a way, this is the most difficult thing, because you're facing the most, well, you're facing the most number of people. It's a very competitive game, but there are pockets where you can trade. If you think, as this guy did, that you can pull up a stock chart on, I don't know, Tesla, and think I can look at this and I can make money, because there are edges every day. Think about it for a second. Pretty much anyone with a cell phone and a bank account of any size can trade Tesla. You're trading against possibly a billion possible competitors. It is very unlikely that you have found something that is obvious and sitting there every day. So the retail person has that problem, but they have a huge advantage as well. The advantage is that they don't have to trade,

Speaker 1  24:36  
and furthermore, you don't have to trade the same thing. So if you're a professional, you are trolled. You know you're working on the equity dispersion desk. So you go and sit down there and you trade equity dispersion, and that is all you trade. And if you have some idea about potato futures or whatever, it doesn't matter, because no one cares about your idea. You cannot trade it. You don't even have the accounts to. Put that in if you're a retail person, that's not a barrier for you. You can do whatever you like, but that also means you have to you will never beat as a retail person. You will never beat a professional straight up in their game. That's not unusual. If you're playing cricket and you're a club player. You're not going to go and beat a professional playing cricket. They are better than you in a whole bunch of different ways. You're not going to beat the Goldman Sachs equity dispersion desk as an amateur. But what you can do is, when things get hot, you can jump into these markets and make money, because things are crazy, and pretty much anyone in those markets who knows what they're doing can make money. So if you're retail, you have the option to switch. You have to exercise that option, because, again, there's a sort of a narrative out there in the world that retail, if you know what you're doing, can compete with, okay, professional is not the opposite of retail. The opposite of retail is institutional. I know retail traders who make millions literally sitting at home in an office like this, trading, clicking on stuff. They are professionals. So you can be as good as a pro, sorry, as an institutional trader, but you have to trade differently. So always bear that in mind as well. So exactly how you exactly what accounts is obvious will depend on the on the world you're living in as a trader. So you are a trader first, and you're an options trader second. And I've already gone through the idea that the most important thing in general is to trade. But you also have to remember that the you don't always have to trade options. I've had, I've had ideas over the years, and my first thought is always, how do I trade an option strategy to make money from this idea, always, and that's not always the right way to do it, there are some ideas that are much better implemented in just the stock market. Always trade the thing that most simply expresses your view, and most simply and cheapest, cheapest as in trading costs.

Speaker 1  27:42  
Trading the stock is simpler and cheaper than trading options. So if you come up with something and then be like, Oh, I don't need to trade options at all. I'm trading the stock. That's not a bad thing. That's a better thing, because eventually you end up very, being very immersed in this one thing, options, and they have complications, and you will learn to deal with those eventually you start thinking very much in options terms. But that's a weakness. Always remember, do I need to trade options here? Furthermore, remember that the idea is to make money. I shouldn't have to say this, but people, even experienced people sometimes forget this because they get too buried in the weeds. But thinking about interesting problems that thinking about problems that other people might not have thought about, and they're thinking about building a system or whatever, always back up. You don't get paid more money to play this game on hard mode. Just if you find something that makes money doing something simple, and you can just bang away at it, that's great. Do that. You're not here to do things that make that you find interesting. I had a conversation recently with a guy who come up with some idea for trading options in different indices against each other based on I can't even remember what it was, but it was very complicated. It had lots of things that had to work. It had lots of assumptions in it. And I eventually just said to him, why don't you this is all coming down to this one risk factor, of you selling options on the S P, why don't you just sell options on the S P, forget all this other stuff, because he'd got so buried in the other stuff that he'd forgotten the big thing. So surprisingly, this is a thing that you always have to remind yourself, it doesn't matter how experienced you get, and when I say stuff like that, I'm not putting myself above these mistakes. I know that these mistakes exist. I know that. Because I've seen them in others, but I also see them in myself. I'm not claiming I'm some sort of super trader. I'm not saying I'm the best. All I can tell you is that I've been around a long time, so I'm surviving in this game. And I've seen a lot of mistakes. So again, I made most of them, some of them I still make, but all I can do is point them out, and hopefully you can avoid at least some of them. Options trading is inherently a mathematical thing, but you're not a mathematician, so don't fall in love with the mathematics. Math doesn't matter intrinsically. It's just a tool. And like any tool for if you're a mechanic, you you're not interested in your tools as a final thing. You're interested in how to use them to fix the car. But you've got a similarly, you've got to respect your tools, right? You've got to take care of them. You've got to hang them up nicely on the wall when you're done. You don't just throw them around willy nilly. Maths is like that too. You've got to respect the mathematics and do the mathematics carefully and properly, but you're not a mathematician. Again. Remember that? So

Speaker 1  31:23  
um, okay, so this question here, trading, let's phrase this a question is trading about surviving to make money. And that is a astute question. My boss currently is in the blackjack Hall of Fame. He was one of those original guys who learned who was one of the original card counting groups. He counted with Ed Thorpe. He was like, right back at the beginning. The thing he learned from that, and he still talks about is trading. You find an edge, then you stay in the game. So trading is definitely about surviving to make the long run, because you need all the things you do are going to be statistical in nature. And whenever you have statistics, you need the big sample, you need the long run. So you'll have ups and downs in anything. But if you can survive doing something sensible, eventually it will work, because that's sort of what it means for something to be sensible. So this also brings up a big mistake that people can make, which I'll come back to again unapologetically, I'm going to save the some things more than once, and that mistake is trying to be a hero, right? Trying to put on this massive bet and make billions in one go. That is a mistake. Will it work? Well, maybe, but it could not work as well. That's the equivalent of going to the casino or having a coin comes up heads 55% of the time. You know you have the edge. You have the advantage. So you bet everything you own on that coin. You have the edge. But that's still a dumb thing to do. You're much better off making lots and lots of small bets and letting you win over time. So having the patience to realize that it doesn't matter on any one giving day, it matters over your career, that's important, and it's frustrating, because you'll see other people who make billions, but you don't see the people who lose money every day and lose their jobs, which is much more common. Furthermore, those people who make billions tends to not do it again, because they've taken a big shot, and they kind of got lucky, not lucky in that they didn't have an edge, but lucky in that their edge played out that one time. So there are plenty of guys who make money in a very visible way and then really never have much of a career after that. So I personally don't want to be that guy. Well, I guess at this point in my career, I can't be It's been too long. Okay, math and machine learning, AI tools will not directly find ways to make money. They are ways to implement that observation. So you never start with mathematics. You always start with the observation or the phenomena. And quite frankly, if you get the observation or the phenomenon right, the math, the exact math you use, won't matter too much. So an example here is people will have arguments like, do stocks trend? Do stocks mean revert? Should I use a Bollinger band to trade mean reversion? Should I use

Speaker 1  34:58  
a Moving Average? System to trade trending. It's not about those systems. If you identify a system a time when the markets trend, pretty much any trend following system will work. Some will be better than others, but the crucial thing is, you've identified a trend following system. Conversely, if the market's trending, it doesn't matter what mean reversion thing you do, it won't work because you're trying to get money out of something that isn't there, so you get the phenomenon right. Then this exactly what you do after that is much less important, and it kind of comes down to like, school kids arguing about whether Delta Force is tougher than the SAS, or whether a kung fu guy can beat a karate guy or whatever. And you're really like, well, actually, in general, it probably depends on, is the Kung Fu guy better at kung fu than the karate guy is a karate I mean, these arguments like that usually miss the point and are usually kind of silly. And furthermore, you don't find you don't find the guys in the SAS arguing with the guys in Delta Force. They all kind of realize that their commonalities are way more important than their differences. Their differences are often due to exactly what they're trying to do, and they're all, you know, pretty tough. Okay, so these are the most. This is what I call the trading pyramid. For those of you who've seen the show Silicon Valley, it's a little bit like the CO joined triangles of success. For those of you who haven't seen Silicon Valley, that's just a joke. Don't worry, if you haven't. On the other hand, you should see Silicon Valley because it's incredibly funny. Also very relevant if you work in a tech startup, things really are like that. Okay, so I've done this bit of the pyramid roughly according to the importance of each bit, also, the font size is roughly in accordance with each bit. So the most important thing by far is finding edge, finding that unfair advantage. Next is risk management. Lastly and most minimally, is Psychology. If you don't have edge, it doesn't matter how good your risk management or psychology is. And if you don't have edge and risk management, it doesn't matter how good your psychology is. So you can't just sit down and say, You know what, I've managed my emotions. I'm some sort of Zen master that's that's how I'll make money in the markets. That doesn't make any sense. If that was the case, go and buy lottery tickets and sit there with your great psychological composure and make money. Doesn't work. Similarly, risk management is not going to make you money. Risk Management done badly can certainly lose you money, but done well, it won't make you money. You can see this by thinking about who's getting paid the most in a bank or a hedge fund. The guys who get paid the most are the traders, the ones who make money, because that is the hardest thing. Risk management is about putting systems in place. It's about going through a process. You have to be good to do it, but anyone can learn how to do it to a certain degree. You know, like you can't learn to be the best in any field just by sitting down and learning, but you know, you can learn it in a way that it's much harder to learn and find this bit. So someone just asked, what is edge? And to that, I would say, wait for two slides and we'll get there. Okay, so before I talk about exactly mathematically, etc, what is edge, I want to talk about, what does it mean for a trade to be good? Whoa. Okay, that's not cool. Okay, sorry, my PowerPoint just collapsed. Let me start that up again. Does that work? No, it's gone back to the beginning and it's changed all my settings over here. Okay, do a this is one reason why going to a new system always sucks. Okay, so, where was I?

Speaker 1  39:36  
Oh, yeah, what does it mean to be a good trip to do a good trade? Well, a good trade is one that you would do again no matter what the result of that specific trade is. It means that knowing everything you knew, you made the correct decision, you will do good trades based on the correct process that don't make money. So just looking at. The result of the trade is not a good way to know if it's good or not. Good trades can lose money. Bad trades can make money. A good trade is one that's based on a sensible process that has all of these pieces in place. You get to a certain point, and when you're starting out, you will make plenty of bad trades because you don't have that process and put in place. Eventually, you won't make nearly as many bad trades. You might not the results may not come up immediately better, but it does mean you'll stay in the game a lot longer. I still absolutely make bad trades, but I don't make nearly as many as I used to. So this is, this is what you want to get to. You want to have a repeatable process and a good trade needs positive edge and an acceptable level of risk edge, as we're just about to see in the next slide. You

Speaker 1  41:03  
Oh, someone just said they love that dog. I also love that dog. He's getting a bit old now, so he doesn't come up the stairs to hang out with me, but he used to come up and hang out in my office all the time, which was nice. Having a dog is a very, very good thing, actually, and we'll talk about that later. It's not a completely unrelated, trivial thing. Okay, edge is risk agnostic. And what I mean by that is edge is just a statistical thing. If I give you statistics and we go both look at them, we can agree on what is and what is not edge. Risk is not like that. Risk varies for a number of reasons, which we will come back to between traders and firms. What is a risk to you? May not be a risk to me. So trading, sorry. EV is risk agnostic, but acceptable risk varies. So again, we'll come back to that. So what is edge? What is Edge? Edge literally means a trade has positive expected value. And by expected value I mean an average result, and that that's interesting in a way, I think historically, because originally, statistics was developed and probability theory, sorry, probability theory was developed in like the 1600s what we think of as statistics and t tests and stuff like that, was developed in the 1920s and 1930s so They're different things. They're linked. But probability the whole idea was based on gambling. And expected value is an old term, I guess it's still used for the mean, and that means expected value was always thought of the value in dollar terms of that bet wouldn't have been dollars, it would have been ducats, because this was renaissance in Italy. There were no dollars at the time. Actually, maybe there were, because the American dollar almost certainly wasn't the first dollar. Someone must have had $1 before that. But anyway, expected value is literally the mean value of the trade. So it is the probability weighted outcomes of the trade. So example, the simplest example, kind of the canonical example of a thing that has edge would be a loaded coin, if the coin comes up 55% of the time. So we know that our strategy is to call heads. If we win, we make $1 if we lose, we lose $1 so the expected value of that is the probability of the first outcome plus the probability of the second outcome, which is a minus, in this case, because it's plus point four, five times minus one, and the expected value of this trade is 10 cents. So this is a potentially attractive trade. It hasn't passed all the tests yet, because I haven't got to the point where I talk about risks, but potentially this has passed the first part of our trading pyramid note here, because I'm talking about the average it doesn't have to be the result of any one trial. The average year 10 cents is not a result you're ever going to get when you toss a coin once. So the I will come back to that next question. So edge is literally a thing that is realized on average over a large number of trials, going back to the point someone made that big part of trading is staying in the game. Getting to the long run. Averages only make sense. Well, probabilities only make sense over the long run. I mean, you could talk about the probability of a single event, but that is not going to be the realization of that event. So making this whole thing very concrete, if I bet $1 on this coin 1000 times the average, good lord. Okay, this is not going well, and this is not anything I've ever had on this computer either. I don't know what's going on with Microsoft. This time it's actually killed the entire thing. Apologize for this. It's probably more annoying for me than it is for you. Okay, so I'm not going to touch anything there, and hopefully that will make it less likely to break if

Speaker 1  46:01  
it may even if it makes it more likely for me to screw up something else. Oh, man. Okay, so while I'm bringing up that PowerPoint for the fifth time, I could give the definition of edge again, edge is just the probability weighted outcomes of all the different events. So it's the probability of the first thing that can happen plus the probability of the second thing that can happen plus the probability so on and so on. And that literally is the same as the average. So if I tell you what is the average result of these things, then that is what edge is. So from a sporting context, particularly for those of you in India, when you think of a batting average, what you're talking about. Ah, for God's sake. Okay, so someone just gave a suggestion of converting this to PowerPoint and then opening in something else, sorry, converting to PDF and then opening in a PDF reader. So let's give that a go.

Unknown Speaker  47:33  
Save a copy. Save As we is, where's the PDF? Save, Save, Okay, now let's open that separately.

Unknown Speaker  48:32  
It says the problem that I can't find the PDF, but here we go.

Unknown Speaker  48:48  
Up Steve link to

Speaker 1  49:02  
Okay, all right, thank you for your suggestion. If this in fact, works, if it doesn't work, I guess thank you for your suggestion. Anyway, it was a nice suggestion. Okay, so is the screen at least still being shared?

Speaker 1  49:36  
Okay, sweet. I think we might have temporarily at least solve this problem. Doesn't solve my general problem, but I can figure that out afterwards. Okay, so if I now have another coin that only wins 10% of the time, but when I win, I win $10 So if you go through this equation again, you'll find that that second coin also has a positive expected value. However, it has the same positive expected value. However, these things are clearly very that's a good point to view as full screen. Where the hell do I do that? Yeah, look at that sweet. Thank you, Zubin. I appreciate your help. And Shiv rush, okay, brings up the point worth mentioning. If you get employed on a trading desk when you start, you're not going to be much use in terms of actually making money, because, particularly at trading operations and a bank say, you're going to have to learn lots and lots of operational issues. This is a lot to learn, but until you start making money, you're kind of a drain on the system. People want you to make money, so excuse me, knowing how to solve implementation problems like that is very important when you're starting out. So the more stuff you know about how to run Excel spreadsheets, how to stop something like that happen, how to make the printer work. These are important skills, and you shouldn't neglect them. Knowing how to do stuff like that is actually a fairly make yourself as useful as you can, as quickly as you can, rather than sort of thinking you're special. And sitting back, when I started, there were three of us who had PhDs. Two of us kind of sort of grasp intuitively. I guess that having a PhD was a thing that might pay off in the long run, but in the short run, what really was useful was our our sort of willingness to do stuff like fill the fill the printer with paper and carry sheets around to different traders and reboot computers and all that kind of nonsense. Whereas the other guy was like, I'm on the fast track. I've got a PhD. I'm not doing that. That guy got fired within six months because he really wasn't. It's not the right attitude. So those guys who helped me out not saying other people wouldn't, but those guys, yeah, that's exactly the right sort of thing you need to be doing. Okay? So anyway, these bets clearly very different. They've got the same expected value. So clearly expected value does not tell you everything you need. Going back to my cricket example, I think when you say a cricketer has a certain batting average, that's just literally the sum of all the outcomes divided by the number of outcomes, which would be the same As the probability weighted results. So his his average would be his expected value. And it's very unlikely that his expected value is something that you actually come up with each time. You know it's like people are going to have a average of 32 and a half. You can never get 32 and a half. But over time, if his ability stayed the same, that's what you would expect to end up with. Which brings me to another slight aside, but sampling error. Sampling error means something different in finance than it would in most sciences. When a physical scientist says, you know, something is between this and that, because that's the sampling error. What they typically mean is, I've measured this thing to the best of my ability, but my instruments have a certain limitation, so I'm measuring the length of my desk, but I've only got a tape measure with one centimeter gradiations on it. I can't tell you what the width of my desk is to the nearest nanometer, impossible. But that doesn't mean it hasn't got

Speaker 1  54:31  
width to the nearest nanometer. Finance is sort of a little bit different in that you're seeing exactly the same the right outcome. You're seeing exactly the right result. There's no sampling error in the fact you made $30 you did make exactly $30 but what you don't know exactly is how representative that result is of the true value. It's like you know cricket. Goes out and he scores 100 right? Well, he did score 100 but what you don't know is what his average is, because you don't know what that means. He certainly hasn't, over time that is not going to be representative of his average, right? I mean, no one in test crickets ever averaged 100 quiz question, what was the highest average over any length of time for test crickets? But it's not 100. So you got to remember that sampling error in finance, you're exactly measuring the thing. But what you never will know is the true ability behind it, the true edge, and furthermore, that edge is always changing, so you're only ever going to know what you're going to know what it was in retrospect, but you have to estimate what it truly will be going forward. Yeah. I mean, it's close. Okay, so Don Bradman had a test batting average of, I think, 99.94 or something ridiculous. And the cool part of the story is that he needed to get one in his last test earnings to get to 100 as an average, and he didn't. So I don't know this was just one of those interesting little quirky things. And I think the highest, the next highest test average is something like 60, which kind of puts his his ability into some context as well. But that's enough of the cricket history. I imagine there's lots of you who could talk about that all day as well. Okay, back to this. Okay. Now having an edge doesn't mean you win more often that you than you lose. It just means your average is positive. So consider like a dice standard. I know you, some of you are probably in Dungeons and Dragons nerds, so I have to point out this has got six sides, not 20 or whatever. A six sided dice outcomes of one through four that occurs 22 thirds of the time. But that is not an edge. So knowing that something wins most of the time is not an edge. So if you only get 40 cents for landing on 123, or four, and you lose $1 if you don't work through that little equation, you'll find you have negative edge again. I shouldn't have to point this out, but even experienced traders get this wrong. Winning more your winning percentage is not the important thing here. A winning percentage is not edge. And in fact, betting on favorites, betting on things that win more often is, generally speaking, a long term loser, not generally speaking, but certainly often. So knowing that something's more likely to happen is not necessarily an edge jumping forward a bit. And I don't expect those of you who don't know anything about options to follow this, but for those of you who do, if you sell very, very, very far out of the money options, you will almost always make money. If you sell at the money options, you will make money or lose money much closer to 5050, and that's true whether or not you actually have any statistical edge in either of those trades. So knowing that you win more often, selling strangles will often lead traders to sell these far, far out of the money options, which is a mistake. That is not what will make you money in the long run. What will make you money in the long run is if you're selling options with an edge, which is basically what you'll be talking about for the next five weeks. So winning percentage is not your important thing. Okay, so we've talked about edge, and mathematically, it's pretty simple, right? It's just your average outcome. Actually, this is a very good time for me to take a five minute break, and then when we come back, we're going to talk about the next thing on that pyramid, which is risk. And as you can see from here, risk is not a single thing. So five minute break, I'll be back, and I always imagine that there's going to be some of you saying something, like I can't hear or the camera is stuck. But it's not, it's literally, I've left the room. I.

Speaker 1  1:03:22  
Of okay, so congratulations to all of you. You're one of the first groups. I think I can remember who didn't say my camera's gone blank or I can't hear anything. So anyway, getting back to this talked about edge, the most important thing risk is the next thing you have to have under control. And being bad at risk management eventually will mean you won't get to the long run, which is at the MO is a very, very important thing. So risk, this is one of the reasons that trading is hard. There are many reasons that trading is hard, but this is a big one risk is everything that isn't edge. So this is something that we're used to in the real world, people sometimes forget about it in trading, we have one thing that can go right, and that is the one thing that we have predicted. That is that one edge that we have. Everything else in the world is working against us. So one thing can go well, everything else can go badly. Sorry. I can just hear a cat whining, gonna have to throw him out in a minute. So we know about this in the normal world, like I said, and when I say risk is different for different people, that applies in two different ways. The first is, you have a risk tolerance, right? You may think it's fine to do a trade where you could probably you have expected value, but you i. Only are expected to make on average, $1,000 but there's a chance you'll lose $100,000 you might be okay with that. You might be sorry. I'm gonna have to turf that cat out. Get out of there. You

Speaker 1  1:05:47  
all right, sorry about that. That wasn't very successful. He just ran away. Okay, so coming down to risk tolerance, you might be prepared to to accept that chance of $100,000 loss, and I might not. There is nothing wrong necessarily with either of those decisions. Someone else can say to you, you're crazy, but that's up to you. Risk tolerance is a personal thing, and that's fine. There's nothing people can agree to disagree, and often, it won't be your risk tolerance. It will be the risk tolerance of the person who's giving you money, whether that's just your boss or the customers of your hedge fund or whoever. So again, that's fine, risk tolerance. That's one of the reasons risk is personal, is we are all different. The other, more subtle reason, though, that risk is personal, is because of this, risk is everything that isn't edge. Your edge can be different to someone else's edge. We can both be doing things that are different if if I have a certain skill in real life, and you don't. So I'm a Brain Surgeon and you're not me doing a brain operation doesn't have the same type of risk as you doing a brain operation. So again, what is risk depends on what is edge. Okay, beyond that, there are a bunch of different kinds of risks that we will be talking about in the next few slides, and people sometimes forget this and say that risk is entirely cat. Risk is entirely like the standard deviation of results, and that is one part of it, but it's not the only part

Unknown Speaker  1:07:56  
of it. I

Speaker 1  1:08:07  
Okay, so there are two things I'm just going to have to put up with this morning, it seems. The first is PowerPoint. The second is that cat's going to be whining at me all day. Okay, so variability of results, standard deviation is a risk. There are things that we are not even going to try and predict, but other people might be. So that's that case of the brain surgeon or not the brain surgeon. There are what I would refer to as meta risks, and then there are the black swans. So taking each of these in turn model risk is quite straightforward, and it's the just the thing that you might be wrong about the trade. You there may you may think there's edge there, and there just might not be. And if you think back to the first slide, you've got the complete moron on the left. He thinks everything's got an edge, and he's wrong. Everything doesn't. But you, as a smarter person, might think that your trade has edge, and it just might not. I mean, there might just be a case where you have made an observation, which just turns out either was never really there or isn't there going forward. So it's you can test that something was never really there. You can just look at the statistics. So if you say, You know what, I think stocks go up in the last five minutes of every month, by the way, that is sort of a thing that does happen. There is a tendency for stocks to go up right at the end of the month. And it becomes more of a tendency as you get closer and closer and closer to the close on the last day. So that is a real thing. You can measure whether that has actually happened by looking at the results of what's happened in the past. So you can say over the last. Last 1000 observations, this has happened 55% of the time, etc, etc, etc. You can see if it has had edge, but it might not have edge. Going forward, things change. The markets adapt. If something becomes very obvious, maybe it will just go away. Not always. We'll talk about the cases where it does and the cases where it doesn't, but there is a chance. So even if you weren't wrong with your initial observation, there's nothing to stop you being wrong going forward. Furthermore, statistics when you are doing a trade aren't necessarily the best way to know if something is actually not working. Now, I know it seems very tempting to ask, How do I know a trade is not working anymore? When do I know when to stop? And if you're just looking at the statistics, the like the results of your trade, the answer to that would be, never. You pretty much never know when a trade is doesn't work anymore. Think about it purely statistically. If you've got 1000 observations of something where it worked and it worked consistently, so you might have a t score of that statistical test of like five or something. It really, really, really did work going forward to prove it doesn't work to the same degree of accuracy you're going to need again, like 1000s of observations. So if you're just looking at the statistics of your results, that's a really bad way to know that something doesn't work. The statistics don't work like that. Oh, you can't hear the cat, sweet. It's just annoying me. It's like I live in a zoo. Okay, so there is no really good statistical test for knowing if something doesn't work. What you really need is a reason for why it worked in the first place, and then you don't have to wait for the results. You can see if the reason goes away, you can just stop doing the trade, like forget about the results going forward. If the reason isn't there anymore, then the trade isn't there anymore. So having a reason something was there very important. So going back to my stocks go up at the end of the month. One of the reasons is that in the US, at least mutual funds, tend to get big inflows towards the end of the month for a bunch of reasons. One reason is that people tend to get paid towards the end of the month. They tend to make their set contributions to their retirement accounts at the end of the month. So the mutual funds have to do more stock buying at the end of the month. We know that's an effect. So if that stops being an effect, so let's say people now, because of technology or whatever, they get paid every day, that end of month thing is not going to be nearly so prevalent. So if that happened, we could stop doing the trade. We don't have to wait for 10 years to see, oh, this doesn't work anymore.

Speaker 1  1:13:10  
But often the reason, I mean, like again, the world, the real world, is murky. It's never black and white. Often the reason is sort of much more slippery than that. It's harder to identify. One thing you can at least console yourself with is that it's kind of hard to find edge. It's pretty unlikely you found negative edge. So if you think something worked in the past, maybe it will stop, but it's unlikely to flip. It's unlikely to get to the point where stocks systematically go down at the end of the month. So it still sucks if you're trading things that have no edge, because you will again rack up transaction costs. But it doesn't suck as trading something that has negative edge. So I guess that's the only thing to really console yourself with. The next kind of risk is the risk that people generally talk about in risk management textbooks. And this is variance, just luck. You know, if I toss my coin one time, I could win, I could lose. Doesn't really matter whether I have edge or not, that is still the case any one trade, there is enormous amount of luck involved, and even doing a lot of trades, it still probably takes you longer than you think for that luck to not be the dominant factor. So let's take this strategy, hypothetical strategy I've got, it's got a sharp ratio of one and a half that is good. There will be courses you do over your lifetime where people say you need a sharp of two to do a trade. There is no set rule like that. Having a long term stock trading strategy with a sharp of one. That's fantastic. Warren Buffett, in his best 20 years, only had a sharp ratio of about point eight. So if that's good enough for Warren Buffett, that should be good enough for you. That's a reflection of the type of market he was in, if you're trading in a high frequency market making operation, you should have a sharp ratio of 10. So what you do, what the Sharpe ratio you have, very much depends on the game you're playing. So having a sharp ratio of one and a half, that's fine. So let's assume that's what we've got here. That still means, just due to the variance inherent in the Sharpe ratio, 7% of the time you're going to be a loser after a year, so 7% of the time you're going to have to go and explain to your boss that the strategy you said you had a sharp ratio for of one and a half has still lost money. That doesn't mean you're wrong at all. That doesn't mean the edge has gone away. That's just a reflection of luck. So that is definitely a risk, and it's just really one that you have to be aware of. But again, if someone comes to me and says, I've got a sharp ratio of five, well the chances of them losing money, assuming normal distribution, the chance of them losing money over a month, is really small. Like, I don't know what it is. I haven't done it off the top of my head, it's like 2% or something. So if that person comes to me and says they have a sharp of five, and after a month, they're losing money only like, Well, come I don't really think your true strategy is that. Let's delve a little more deeply. You've probably overfit something, you've made a mistake somewhere, or it's really gone to pieces. So knowing the truth, knowing your sharp strategy, sorry, your sharp ratio, and your expected Sharpe ratio, is kind of important for that, because it tells you what sort of results to expect. And in this case, 7% of the time I lose money. Well, that's sort of to be expected if I lose money, but if I lose money for two years. Now, we've got a problem, but I don't know that's a problem unless I know what I was meant what my results were meant to look like. The next kind of edge is the stuff that we're not trying, sorry, risk is the stuff we're not trying to predict, but can be predicted by other people. So no one can predict everything that drives a market. There's never one thing that's going on. So a big thing that everyone in the moron universe has got excited about over the last few years is the effect of dealer hedging on the underlying and it's like, I know literally people who say that's the only thing that matters, is dealer hedging. That's all you need to know about. Okay, first, that whole premise is is wrong for a bunch of reasons.

Speaker 1  1:18:04  
But second, there's never only one thing you need to know about if dealer hedging is mattering in the short term, so is just people buying and selling for other reasons. Maybe the stock had earnings. Maybe there was an oil crash, and it's related to oil. Somehow, maybe there's a war that's broken out somewhere. There's always a myriad of reasons, and there's only one thing we're predicting, so for us as volatility, sorry, options traders, that one thing is almost certainly going to be volatility, but options depend on other things as well. They depend primarily on the stock movement, but also on currency fluctuations. If they're denominated in a foreign currency, interest rates, dividends. We're not predicting any of that stuff, but it's there. So for us, this is risk. So we want to try to get rid of this or hedge this as much as we can. This is like, once you found an edge, try to isolate that edge. This goes back to my example I gave of when I said, sometimes you'll have an idea, and it's not best expressed in options terms, if you have an idea and it's that the stock's going up, and that's all you know. It's wrong to buy an option, because the option will depend on things that you don't know about. If you know stocks going up, buy the stock, because that is the cleanest way to isolate the edge. As options traders, we're going to see the concept of hedging the stock movement is crucial. There's but these are there are these other things as well, interest rates. Well, in theory, you can hedge your interest rate exposure. In practice, practically no options traders ever do if you're a small. Options trader, it's too expensive in terms of transaction costs and in terms of the size of the markets you have to trade to hedge your interest rate costs. So if you're a small options trader, you just accept that that's a risk. If you're a big options trader and you're trading in an institution, you probably won't be hedging that stuff either, because interest rate risks aggregate in a way that stock risks don't. If you're trading options on Apple and options on Tesla, you have to hedge the stock risk in each one, but the interest rate risk on both of those is the same. So interest rate risk tends to be hedged at the Treasury level, the risk management level. So in practice, most options traders don't hedge interest rates. It's much harder to hedge dividends. You can do dividend swaps, but it's harder. People generally don't do that at all either. But anyway, stuff we don't predict is a risk. Okay? Meta risks are things that are completely outside of the game. If you're betting on sports, you know what the rules are of that game, and that's all you have to take into consideration. You know, in cricket, if someone hits the ball over the boundary, that's a six. You don't get to the situation where someone hits the ball over the boundary, and then the umpire goes, Wow, that was just a great shot. I'm going to give you 30. That doesn't happen. The rules are set in trading. That's not the case. We're exposed to stuff outside of our little trade. So, for example, I was trading during 911 during that time, the markets closed, as in, because of something that happened at an external level. Nothing to do with the stock market, nothing to do with movements and individual stocks. I had a risk the market shut. That was my risk, and that was because of an outside thing. So wars, global economic events, they can impact you. You can't escape those. So even if you ever get to the point, oh, bankruptcies, when I say disruptive technologies that could come along, like in in Bitcoin, for example, Bitcoin itself is somewhat disruptive, but in Bitcoin, it could go from no one trades on the exchanges anymore, everyone trades on chain. That would be a situation where you could be left with a position on the exchange that you can't get out of somehow, and that can happen inflation. You can make money, but your money you're making isn't keeping up with inflation. That's kind of nothing to do with the bets you're taking. That's to do with a bigger thing, and one of the really big things is fraud or theft

Speaker 1  1:23:02  
in options. So there's this idea pumped by some people who should know better, that the big risks and options are these higher order moments and the exposure you have to a the sixth moment of the stock or something like that, almost certainly untrue that stuff's actually really easy to hedge. We'll see that later. You can if you blow up because of that, you're an idiot. What most massive stock option losses have come from is theft and fraud. If you go through a list of the really big, really famous losses so Sumitomo, Jerome Kerviel, Nick Leeson, these are all examples of someone cheating. Bernie Madoff, these are the really big numbers come down to cheating, hiding your risk, fraud. Incidentally, the reason I got into all this was because of Nick Leeson, who he lost so little in compared to like Jerome Kerviel. You may not even have heard of him anymore, but he was the guy who blew up the oldest investment bank in England. He became so trading became a big thing in England. Everyone was hearing about it, and we found out that trading companies were hiring physicists, which how I got into it. The biggest lesson for you guys is, though, the reason he could get away with hiding these losses he had to the point that it blew up the bank, was he wasn't just the trader, he was also the risk manager. So that is a terrible piece of organizational structure. You need to have a level of risk management. As a trader, you manage risks like this. You manage the risk of your book as best you can. But as an institution, you need a level above that of someone independent, looking at the traders to stop. Stop them doing something criminal. If Nick Leeson had had a separate Risk Manager, none of this would have happened. So anyway, fraud is a massive risk, and basically you can only avoid it in the way that anyone else avoids theft in real life, you

Speaker 1  1:25:23  
and that's just be careful. Try and do your due diligence. Ask, do you trust this person? And then don't put all your eggs in one basket. Like if you'd given Bernie Madoff 5% of your money to manage, that would have been fine. If you'd given them all of your money to manage that would be a problem. And actually, the bigger one you've probably got, you guys have probably heard of, was FTX a few years ago when FTX basically turned out, were trading your money without telling you, and they blew up, lost all the money. People who'd invested had money in an account, and FTX lost it. I mean, they've gone through bankruptcy, recovered a whole bunch of it, but that happened at the time. Hang on a second.

Speaker 1  1:26:22  
Okay? Okay, so these meta risks, you have to always remember, are there, but you can't do much about it. Okay, where's this gone? I'm not having much luck with these. Oh, there we go. We're back. Okay. Finally, black swans. Black Swans have, first of all, the idea of the Black Swan, popularized by Nassim Talib. He didn't come up with this, but he certainly popularized it. Made it a thing that a lot of people had heard of, it's kind of become misunderstood. The a black swan is not just a massive event. So a black swan is not 911 a black swan is not a stock market crash. A Black Swan came from the idea that when Europeans got to Australia, they saw black swans, whereas all the swans in the old world were white. So it was a surprise to them, not because it was like intrinsically impossible or rare or anything, and it was a surprise to them because no one would, literally, it would have occurred to no one to ask the question, what is the probability of a black swan? Because it was something outside the imagination. So people had, people knew that 911 could happen. I mean, literally, people had tried to blow up the world trade center before plane had hit it before it was known that that was a thing that wasn't a Black Swan, that was a very bad, big example of something that was within our imagination. Similarly, market crashes are not black swans. They happen all the time, and if you're trading enough markets often enough, you're going to see crashes all the time, like weekly, there's always some stock blowing up somewhere. And if you blow up because of one of those events, you're an idiot, or you're doing something really wrong. If you blow up because of a genuine Black Swan. I don't even know if you can really be blamed for that, because literally, they are things that you can't ever have predicted. What you can avoid is you can avoid the effect of a black swan. So here I've actually hit a few black swans in that they were things that I literally couldn't have. I didn't think of. Had no idea these things could happen. And again, it's somewhat personal, because it relies on imagination, and my imagination is different from yours, but I've literally been whacked twice by restructuring of the underlying I was trading. The first one was an index restructuring where Dow Jones, who listed the Euro stocks index, things Dow Jones, yeah, they came up with this idea, and it was going to be a Pan European index, and there were going to be companies in it from every country in the Eurozone. So, you know, Germany would have a bunch of companies, but Portugal would have one, and all this kind of thing. And then after a few years, they were like, Yeah, we don't want to do this anymore. We're going to change it. So it's just going to be the market cap weighted of the companies in Europe. So maybe all the companies would come from France and Italy and Germany. And that changed the amount of dividends the index was going to pay out enormously. And my options book completely by luck, had exposure to that dividend risk. When I say, you don't hedge the dividend risk, but being we didn't, and I just happened to have it on the wrong way completely unfortuitously, I had no idea that an index could be changed like that purely at the whim of the issuer. But if you think about it, of course it can. It's a fake number to begin with. It's just a number that someone had said. These are an aggregation of prices. We think this reflects the market. They can change their mind similarly, index restructure, ETF restructuring, it happened a similar thing to me.

Speaker 1  1:30:52  
What you can even though you can't imagine the Black Swan, you can mitigate against the results of the Black Swan. And this is a risk management thing that's important, even though you might look at your options book and say, Well, I I will lose all of my money if the stock index drops by 50% but that won't happen. The mistake is you're saying that won't happen. You with risk management with Edge, it's based on probabilities. You literally saw that. It is literally the probability weighted outcome. Risk management isn't about the probability of something happening. And literally, with a black swan, you don't know the probability, because you don't even know the event. Risk management is about the consequences of something happening. So it's not like you think the probability of the stock market going down is minuscule. Who cares? The consequences of it aren't minuscule. So risk management is you hedge against the consequences of an event, not chances of that event happening. So this is a problem people run into, even knowing that, then they get too conservative. You can't always hedge away everything without throwing away you all of your edge, because hedging costs you money. If hedging involves buying some options, well, that costs you money because you're buying options that you pretty much think are worthless. So every you can't hedge away unpleasantness. So if you've got a if you've got a often people will say, look, I make money five weeks, and then I lose, sorry. Every day, on average, I make 5% but once a year I lose 50% they and then they say, Well, if I've still got a positive value, but I don't like losing 50% that sucks, so I'm going to cap my loss at 20% but capping your loss at 20% probably means you're throwing away so much edge you now no longer have expected value. So hedging too conservatively is a very big mistake as well. It's not as bad as not hedging at all, but it's a bad thing. There are certain characteristics of strategies you have to accept to do the strategy. Sometimes you have to accept you will have the occasional big loss, and that's the price of you doing the thing to start with, you can't hedge away something that's unpleasant. You have to hedge away things that will ruin your life. So for me, say I'm doing a trade, I can't make that try. I don't want to lose $50,000 that will suck? No, I mean, that's probably just something I have to accept, but if I lose $5 million that's going to ruin my life, so I have to mitigate against that. So someone asked a question, can you use ketosis or the fat tails of a distribution to predict the likelihood of a black swan effect.

Unknown Speaker  1:34:24  
To a degree, there is information in, well, I'm going to assume you mean the ketosis implied by options here.

Speaker 1  1:34:37  
What I'm saying is more general than that, but stick with me there. There is information in the options about what they're what the options are saying might happen. Does contain about information about what might happen, but it's not much information. There are people who try to predict. Stock movements by looking at the options distributions. It can be done to a degree, but to me, it's a lot of work for not a great result. So when I say it's all about edge, it's about picking good bets. Picking the thing to work on is the first bet you work on. So you want to pick a good problem to solve as well. So I'm not saying that doing that is a unsolvable problem, but I don't think it's a great bet. I don't think it's the easiest thing to do, so always remember that as well. Just because you can solve a problem, it doesn't mean you should then go for the low hanging fruit again. There's no you're not going to make extra money for playing on hard mode. Okay, so that's risk. We're done. Now we sort of understand what risk is at a very high level. Now I'm going to talk about the efficient market hypothesis. And that means, formally, a market is, sorry, a market is efficient with respect to a certain amount of information, if you can't get profits from using that information. So a market would be efficient with respect to fundamental information if going through all stock fundamentals didn't help at all. What it means to a trader, though, is making money is really hard, and the Efficient Market Hypothesis isn't true, even the people who came up with it didn't say it was 100% true, but it is a really good approximation. So it goes back to our first thing, right? It's not impossible to make money, but it certainly isn't easy. So the efficient market hypothesis is a pretty good approximation. So you don't want to be this guy who's like, well, actually, the markets aren't efficient because blah, blah, blah, it's like, look, we know that. Get over it. That's not the important thing here. The important thing is that the efficient market hypothesis was much better than what came before. Before the efficient market hypothesis, it was like, the earth is flat, people, that's completely wrong. The efficient market hypothesis is like the earth is a sphere, much better approximation. But we know in real life, this is New Zealand, where I'm from. We know in real life, the Earth isn't a sphere. There are bumps on it, there are mountains, there are lakes, there's all sorts of things going on. But the important thing is those exceptions are much smaller than the overall idea of it's a sphere. So the exceptions to the efficient market hypothesis are kind of minor, but that's where you as a trader, make money. So it's like if you're if you're an airline pilot, right? The first thing you do is you plot your big, big navigational choice, which is you fly on a great circle between two different places. So let's say I'm flying from Los Angeles to London. I plot my course, and off I go. But if you're a pilot, you also have to realize that that course is an approximation, and if you stick completely to that course, what you're going to do is fly into the Rocky Mountains. So you as a trader, are the pilot. You have to know about those exceptions. They may be small, but they're important. So it's in the exceptions that we live and the this is what something else I want to come back to, the Efficient Market Hypothesis real quick, is that it's a really good organizing principle. It lets us price derivatives before the efficient market hypothesis, we had nothing but efficient market hypothesis says arbitrages risk free profits don't exist, which basically means we can look at a derivative and say, Well, unless it's this price, We can make arbitrage. Hence it has to be that price. So that's a really efficient market hypothesis is the basis for a lot of other ideas in finance. It's really important,

Speaker 1  1:39:35  
okay, another thing that makes it important is it literally tells us how to make money. The efficient market hypothesis. Literally, the guys who came up with it wrote it down said, in order for a market to be efficient, it needs these things. So when we're looking for exceptions, we have to look for things that require some of these things we're looking for. Markets constrained in some way, markets constrained by costs or barrier to entry or capital constraints. So when crypto first came on, it's still to a degree like this. But when crypto first came on, it was a massive hassle to trade it right. It was difficult to go from the tradfi world to the crypto world, that on ramp was difficult. The only people who were trading it were the nerds, and so that market was inefficient because the forces that would drive it towards efficiency weren't there, like all the big hedge funds, weren't there. There were regulatory barriers as well. There are still banks in the US that won't let you transfer money to Coinbase, and Coinbase is pretty, pretty mainstream now. So there are still people who are frozen out of the crypto world. So knowing nothing else, we could say that crypto is less likely to be efficient than the stock market. I do want to say knowing nothing else, just because one of these things is there, doesn't mean the market has to be efficient. It means it could be. This is a mistake people make with small cap stocks. They say, well, small cap stocks are less, less followed. They don't have the analyst coverage. My edge is, I'm going to trade small cap stocks. That's not your edge. That's a place where you can start looking for edge. But you're not done. You still have to find something. It just tells you the places that are good to look. So that sort of comes back to the question about, can you predict black swan events? It's just not a good place to look. If I had nothing else to do, I would do it. I mean, actually, the company I work at now has spent some time and effort doing it. I personally try to stay out of that project, because I think it's too much work for not enough upside. It's a bad bit, okay, but a constrained market is less likely to be efficient. If there are information asymmetries, then something is less likely to be efficient, right? If you are trading against people who literally know stuff you don't, you are likely to lose money. I mean, it's like if you're playing poker and the other guy can see your cards, that's clearly a bad thing. You can't see his cards. He can see yours. Information asymmetry. You don't want to play that game

Speaker 1  1:42:41  
in most countries, the stock market has laws that stop these sort of things happening. You have insider trading laws, but you also, in the stock options market world, the brokers aren't allowed to tell one trader what they're going to do, and then later on, tell other people that trader is not a he has to disseminate stuff equally. So in the stocks, you're less likely to find real information asymmetries. But in the in the FX world, it's not like that FX options traders can know that the FX stock or the FX underlying desk is about to do a big trade, and they can front run that that's legal. So that's an information asymmetry in the commodity markets. Often there are information asymmetries, right? If you're trading oil, you've gotta know that shell know more about oil than you do. If you're trading agricultural products, you have to realize that Archer Daniels Midland know more about what's happening than you do. So those markets are inherently more dangerous to a trader because you don't have as a trader, you're almost never going to be on the good side of these things. But another thing that's really important to us, different people have different goals, and remember an edge to you can be someone else's risk. So they may literally say, I'm doing this trade, not because I expect it to make money, but because I expect it to hedge my risk, or, like, going back to my stocks go up. Example, the mutual fund might be like, Look, I'm not doing this necessarily because I want to. I know that I'm going to drive the prices against myself. I'm doing it because I have to. My goal is to invest this money. My goal is not to make money on this one trade. So anytime there are participants who want to do different things, edges can arise. And this is probably the biggest one we're going to use as. Options traders. So I want to break down edges into two main parts. The first one is an inefficiency, and that's literally an exception to the inefficient. The efficient market hypothesis. It's like an inconsistency. It's like if there's an arbitrage, where you can buy gold in London and sell it at a different price in New York. That is an inefficiency. So anytime where you can buy one product and replicate it somewhere else for a better price inefficiency, if you can buy six beers for the cheaper than you can buy a six pack, that's an inefficient market. Inefficient. It's important to realize whether you're trading an inefficiency or not. Inefficiencies can trade. You trade them differently. An inefficiency is normally not going to hang around, because other people will notice it, and the trading of it will push it back towards efficiency. So when you find one, you should trade it as big as you practically can, because first, it's unlikely to stick around, and second, it's unlikely that you can trade it as big as you want. So this is somewhere bad traders tend to blow up because they trade something too big. Good traders tend to not maximize the amount of money they make because they find an inefficiency and trade it too small. I've known several really good traders who've said, You know what? This new thing? It's working. It's working really well. I just don't want to push it. I just want to make this amount of money every day, I'm happy with that. The problem is it goes away after a year and they're not making any money, whereas if they've really pounded into it, they would have made a lot more. So when you find something that you think is a genuine inefficiency, trade it aggressively. This is sort of the category of edge. That's the fun stuff. This is where you get to be a hero. This is where you get to make real bets. This isn't necessarily, however, the place where you want to base your entire career as an outsider. If you're a market maker, this is essentially what you're doing if you're working at a bank that might be the case like if you're working on a convertible bond desk, this is literally what you're doing. You're buying a convertible bond, and you're selling an option and a bond and doing the same thing for different prices. But if you're an outsider, if you're a retail person,

Speaker 1  1:47:36  
you will find inefficiencies, but it's not going to be the bread and butter of your career. They will come along, and when they do, you trade them, but they're not going to be something you can rely on to be there forever. Okay, this is a really tough question for a complete beginner. What sort of trading do you need to start ETFs, options, stocks, Bitcoins, anything you suggest you should trade. You should look through this list of inefficients, of things that are needed for something to be inefficient, and you should trade the one that you can get into that's the most pain in the ass. So for generally speaking, if you don't know anything else, the place I would start would be the crypto world right now. And this changes right now, I'd say crypto, because the big funds aren't doing it. It's harder to get into. Remember, these are things you're going to have to get through as well. You're going to have to get through these hurdles to entry, but crypto, there is definitely more edge than there is in tradfi options, we will see is really easy to find edge, but the risk management can be tricky with it's difficult to say, because there's all these different kinds of things that we'll go through. I don't know. That's a really big question. The only thing I would say is, don't start looking at a massive, big cap and think you can find edges in it. I would say that's a thing to avoid. There are structural things you can do, like there are flows like that end of the month effect that will happen in ETFs. But the chances of you finding something like that in Apple or Tesla much lower. Similarly with options, the chances of you finding a systematic mispricing in a big cap stock option unlikely. So ironically, indices are better to trade than stock options, even though they're more liquid. So it's a difficult question. There's a lot of nuances to it. Okay, the more important to us, category of edge is a risk premium, and that is literally one of those cases here. Here, where people have different goals. With a risk premium, someone is paying you to take away a risk they do not, they do not want. And that happens all the time. We buy house insurance. I know I'm paying too much for house insurance. I know it's a bad bet for me, it has negative edge, but the insurance company is willing to do that because they're basing their entire business model on that. They diversify across 1000s of houses. So I know it's a bad edge for me, but I'm doing it willingly to reduce my risk. And this is one of those good things, because you're not relying on other people to make mistakes. You're not relying on other people to do something stupid. That's what you're sort of doing with a inefficiency. And usually people learn. Usually the markets, on aggregate learn, whereas with a risk Premier, these things are probably going to keep, keep being there. You know, like the equity premium, people, stocks go up. You get rewarded for buying stocks because people don't like the risk. Bonds are much safer. Stocks are riskier. They can crash, and you, as a stock investor, get paid to take that risk. The big one for us is options. Tend to be overpriced. You tend to make money selling options. I'm not saying you should always sell options. I'm not saying you should never buy options, but I will say you cannot consistently buy options as a strategy and make money consistently. Doesn't work. You might get lucky. You might hit a big black swan event. But if those things only come along in the market, you're trading like the US equity stock market, if they only come along 10 once every 10 years, that's not going to make you money. You can't do a losing trade for nine years and then make money one year, even if that one year makes you more money, even if that has positive edge. That is a terrible business model. So options tend to be overpriced. There is a risk premia to selling options, because we know being short options is risky. You can blow up so you get paid to take on that risk.

Speaker 1  1:52:35  
Inefficiencies are transient. Risk premia that time varying, but they're persistent, so a risk premier can form the basis of a trading business. I've been trading that effect that options have been overpriced for about 25 years. It's not always going to be a winner, but it's a consistent thing that you can structure your life around the fact stocks go up is about the oldest known effect in finance. We have data that people have analyzed very carefully, including all the biases you can think of. Going back to the 1600s stocks go up over time they go up some decades, they won't, but over time they will with similarly, the options being overpriced. It's not a new effect. I've got an options book that was written in 1905 it was written by a trader who was trading in the 1890s he mentions the very the fact that options are overpriced, even back then, he's not mentioning it as something he discovered, even he in 1895 this was an old effect then. So if something, I'm prepared to bet, if something's been around for 150 years, I'm going to bet it's going to be around for the next 20 or 30 years, which could be your trading career. Someone's asked a question, why do on the runs stay richer than off the run for months? If markets are efficient? Well, like I've said, that's an example of an inefficiency, and that hasn't been for months. That particular effect lasted for decades. So that is a an example of where people would be prepared to pay more for those on the run bonds, so you could trade them as an inefficiency. That's an example of how markets aren't efficient. Regarding risk premia being easy to I should read this before I read it out loud. But whatever regarding risk premia easy to find, hard to manage. Can you send an opposite? Share an options, example, where the edge is statistically clear, but the variance makes it difficult to manage and. And that will happen in a number of places throughout this course, very quickly. Here's an edge in options. Options tend to be overpriced all and this is because, like I said, insurance tends to be an overpriced thing. All options provide insurance for some cases, it's very obvious, very far out of the money puts provide insurance against the market crashing. But even out of the money calls provide insurance against FOMO. You know, if, as a risk manager, sorry, as a professional trader, if everyone else makes a ton of money because the market goes up and you don't that really sucks, because you get paid for outperformance, not just for making money. So all options give insurance against something. So the edge is selling options, but the risk is, if you're just short options, you can blow up. Because if you're short options and the market crashes and you haven't taken steps to mitigate that risk, like I said, You should hedge based on consequences, not probabilities, then you'll blow up. So with options, it's like, it's like defusing a bomb. You can trade options, and usually that means selling options. You can trade options perfectly safely if you know what you're doing, but options, if you don't know what you're doing, and that involves a lot of little wrinkles, are very dangerous. So it's easy to find that edge, but it's hard to manage that edge,

Speaker 1  1:56:44  
something that is not an edge. And we'll go through these really quickly, mainly to show you what not to do. So you don't go and waste time doing this. Don't think you can just sit in a market and kind of feel what's going on that is not an edge. Even the best traders I know can't really do this. Can some people do it? Yes, I believe some people can. But by definition, intuition is something you can't learn. So over time, maybe you will develop this intuition, and that's great. You would be like one of the traders. And literally, I know, I think one out of the hundreds of traders I've met, I think one person has this intuition. It is a bad bet to think you're that one trader. So don't rely on that classical technical analysis, like trend lines, chart patterns. That doesn't work, doesn't work for a couple of reasons. First is, again, you can't start with the analysis. You have to start with the phenomenon. So if, if the market, you're trading trends, then a trend following technical analysis will work, but it only works because it's a confounding thing. It's it's working because of something else, not because anything. It does itself. If you want another reason, well, if you want another sorry piece of evidence that this doesn't work, look at the really big trading firms. Look at the big investment banks. They have arbitrage desks, they have market making desks, they have dispersion desks, they have facilitation desks. They don't have a technical analysis desk. If they thought it worked, they would. They have analysts and people who write newsletters. That's a marketing thing. They're not trading on the stuff themselves. So again, can it work? Maybe? Are you the guy who's going to get it to work? It's a bad bet. We don't take bad bets similarly, analyzing public information like reading the newspaper, reading the economist, and deciding that that gives you an edge. Hmm, I read the economist. I think there's going to be a war in Ghana that's going to raise the coffee prices. The problem is, you're not the only one who knows that stuff. Okay, other people can read that as well, and the markets are going to react to that. You are very unlikely to remember to make money. You have to be right, but you also have to be different. So knowing something's likely to happen isn't going to help you. If everyone knows it's likely to happen, it'll already be priced in risk management again, because of going back to my pyramid risk management on its own, not an edge. So you'll sometimes hear people say, my edge is I manage risk really well. Okay, buddy, go to the casino. Manage your risk really well. See if that makes you money. It won't make you money. Risk Management necessary, but not sufficient. And finally, techniques, mathematics, time series, to. Statistics, machine learning that won't give you an edge. It can help you monetize the edge, but it won't give it to you on your own. So, God, now I've lost my train of thought. Oh, yeah, don't. Don't get all excited about machine learning as some sort of magic thing. For a start, machine learning is really only adaptive regression. It's really only a big thing because computers have got more powerful and we can do it better. It is a tool, but it's no more intrinsically useful than the tools we had before. It's just a more powerful implementation of the same thing. So someone said, what are edges? Everything I had thought of is not in the edge section. Well, this is the big edge. If you knew nothing else, selling options is an edge. But I am going to give you examples as well. So just hold there. So how you should start the analysis again. I'm going to give you an example, but the big thing is, you start with an observation, then you apply the math. But hold on, I'll give you an example. I want to say, go through these real quick about how they're not edges,

Speaker 1  2:01:21  
fundamentals, things that are first you're unlikely to know fundamentals. Other people don't even when you know the fundamentals, though it's still hard to guess what they mean, because what's good news in one situation can be bad news in another. Everything is context dependent. So high unemployment. When the high unemployment in a situation where people are hoping that the Fed lowers rates, that's a good thing, high unemployment number comes out. They're like, Oh, the Fed is now going to lower rates. That's good for stocks. I'll buy stocks. It goes up. But if you're in a recession, high unemployment just means the recession is worse. People aren't going to be buying stocks. So there was a study, and I've given a link to it that shows which didn't come up, probably because of the translation to PDF. People were given the headlines of that were going to be in the paper the next day, so they knew in advance what the fundamentals were going to say, and then they had to place bets on the stock market. And most of those people lost money even knowing what's going to happen isn't necessarily enough to make money. Do I use statistical diagnostics to find edges with options? No, you don't. You use your observation to find edges. You use statistical diagnostics to track the edge and to see if it's working. Statistics is important, but it won't find you anything. Which leads on to P hacking. One of the problems is, if you just have no you have no reason that something will work. And you just look at a lot of things, and you're like, I did really careful tests here. I did cross validation. I did out of sample testing. I did walk forward. This works. It works perfectly according to statistics. If you look at enough things that's going to happen, it doesn't mean it's real. So you have to start with the reason to start with, it's kind of it's like science. Everything starts with a hypothesis, and then you test and frankly, what you're trying to test for is as quickly as possible show something doesn't work, because there are so many things in the world for you to test. What you can't do is waste time testing something and then trying to do it better and make it work. And furthermore, it's impossible to make something out of sample, because the only reason you would have tested it is because you kind of knew it worked already. We don't have nearly as much history as we kind of think we do. If you look at the volatility world, we really only have good data going back to the 1990s and that's not 1000s of daily data points. That's more like hundreds of data points that change at a very slow regime scale. So nothing is really out of sample, and we don't really have enough information to really be sure about the statistics. So you can't purely rely on the statistics. You have to start with something you think. Is plausible for another event, another reason. So if that thing is in general, options are overpriced. That's your phenomenon. Now go and apply your time series methods. Do your statistical diagnostics show how much they're overpriced, show if some things are overpriced more than others or at different times, but you start with that. I think options are overpriced. You don't just throw stats at the problem. I'm going to say that later. So generally, that testing is a the

Speaker 1  2:05:39  
you have to do it, but you confirm something you already knew with it. You don't start with back testing, and particularly with options. Even if I tell you options are overpriced, you say, Okay, well, I'm going to test. Shall I sell these options? One week options, 10 Delta, one week options, 20 Delta. What about one month? What about three months? There are so many things you can test, you're going to find things that work, even if you're wrong. So particularly with options, you need to be clear on the thing you're testing first, and we'll show an example later on. The most important thing with an option strategy is it works in the dumbest way possible. If you have an idea options are overpriced before earnings, okay, if that works by you selling anything that relies on options being overpriced and it works, that's good. But if it doesn't work on that first dumbest thing you can think of, you should give up, because otherwise you're almost certainly going to find something that does work, and immediately you start trying that other stuff you're in sample. So as a general principle, before I take a quick break, as a general principle, trading is like any other business, right? You don't make money in a business for thinking, I'll give an example chill for thinking that you're smarter than other people. Being smart isn't an edge, it's a chance to find an edge. You don't make money as a business by sitting around reading the newspaper and thinking, right the way a business makes money is it finds something that's useful to the world in some way and has something crappy about it. It's a service that other people will pay you to do so, drawing lines on a graph, technical analysis. Now, why would anyone, and why say anyone, I mean, the market. Why would you get rewarded for that? How does that help? Whereas, if you are the guy who's selling insurance in bad times, as in, you're selling options when the market doesn't have people willing to sell options, because everyone else is scared that can make money. This is the guy over here who is selling options. He's making money because there is an intrinsic demand for insurance. A number of people here have asked already, give me an edge. Give me an edge. Well, I've given you some. But here's the big one, if you know nothing else about this course, sell options. Now there is a lot more to know about managing the risk of that options, when you should sell them a bit which ones you should sell? But that's your edge. Selling options. Do you like that edge? Probably not, but that's why it's an edge, right? You're not going to get, as a friend of mine says, you don't get paid for doing comfortable, fun stuff. The things you will get paid for doing are things that have an element of suck about them, and this sucks. He's selling insurance. He's just lost a ton of money because there's being a flood. He's now up to his knees and claims it's awful. That's why you make money selling options. If something is intrinsically crappy and you don't really want to do it, there's probably an edge there. So that's what you should be looking for, unpleasant things you can't look for things that are good and fun. You should run towards the fire. I want to take a five minute break see if my voice still works for the next hour. We want to get back. I'm going to show you some. Let me show you an exact an example for going through and finding these things

Speaker 1  2:09:44  
while I'm here. You can read this on your own. This is just an example of some books that do have lists of edges in them. This book is about 600 pages long, and literally, it talks about options for about half a chapter, which tells you. About how many edges he goes through. The important thing to realize here is that edges tend not real. Edges tend not to be a secret. If someone's like, oh, I can't possibly tell you this, because it will go away like, come on, all the trading operations I've managed have been things that other people know how to do, and you just do them better than other people. It's the details you get right. Like, literally, Susquehanna, the biggest trading firm in the world, trains hundreds of people, pays them like garbage. So after three or four years, all of these people leave and go somewhere else, and Susquehanna don't care. They're like, we told these people what to do. We don't care. We'll tell some other people what to do, good enough for us. So don't think that everything's hidden. There are plenty of publicly available sources that give you these things. Furthermore, you should be reading SSRN. Just go in there. Do a search for volatility, for options. Do this every week. You will get ideas from these they're not finished strategies. Academics aren't trying to give you finished strategies. So don't be one of these guys who are like academics can't trade. Why will I listen to them? It's because it's not their job. You can't academic either. Your job as a trader is to take what they're telling you, and use it as a starting point, not an ending point. And now, on that basis, I am going to take a five minute break I'm

Speaker 1  2:14:07  
it. Okay, so this is risk. Premia are easy to find. I mean, I've told, told you the big one, which is options tend to be overpriced. There you go. That's it. That's the big one. Risk premia tend to be easy to find, hard to match. Inefficiencies are almost by definition, harder to find, not if you're like on a convertible bond desk your life or a market maker, your life is about harvesting inefficiencies as an outsider. That's not going to be the case. So it's difficult to come up with a. Particular process to find inefficiencies, which is why I think this methodology is really useful. I did not come up with this. This was written about in my last book with a guy called Andrew Mack who came up with it. He is a professional sports gambler. He's been very, very successful at that, and he's moved into options now, because sports gambling is a very capacity limited event. So he came up with this, literally a recipe for finding inefficiencies. So if this doesn't answer your questions, well, it should, and it's his, I think it's a work of genius, and it's his work. So I'm not claiming credit for this, but it is in the book that we wrote together. So he came up with this method, which he called Arctic. So you start with an anomaly, you come up with some sort of rationale for why that anomaly should be there. You come up with an idea of who your counterparty might be. You look for reasons why you might be wrong, and then incentives and considerations. To be honest, I don't really think have to go in there, but act didn't work out as well as Arctic. So we put these in as well, and then talked around them. So let's go through each of these. In turn, an anomaly is something that's unusual, and when I say a phenomena, you have to recognize a phenomena. This is the anomaly. This is the thing that's unusual. And to spot something unusual, unfortunately, you need to know what is usual, and this, this is the only time experience really helps you. The experience means, if you've been around the market for a long time, you kind of know what goes on, and then you can more easily see what doesn't go on, but it's not a so experience does matter. But you know, even experienced traders can mess things up. And there are plenty of these things, literally, well, I'll tell you about some that are obvious enough to start with. So if you're experienced trader, you will find more of these unusual things. But for example, you only know about my stocks going up in the last few minutes of the month, being weird. If you know that, that doesn't happen all the time, okay, so you find an anomaly, and don't worry, I'm going to give an example. Chill out. Then you find that the rationale for why is this the case? How might this work? Is there a reason? Remember, Reason is really important. Because if the reason goes away, the trade goes away. So is there a reason why this thing makes sense. So if it's like, you have to think about it a bit right, unusual behavior on the last Friday of the month, maybe because Fridays before the weekend, that's a kind of unusual day, last day of the month. Again, it's an unusual day. Is this enough to do a trade? Well, no, but it's part of the process. But if you see something unusual in the second Tuesday of every second month that also happens on the morning of the Thursday afterwards, seriously, do you think that's something you really want to bet your life on, could be real, but again, it's a bad bet stick to the more simple things. So that's after you've found the thing you need, the reason behind the thing, then you've got to ask yourself, well, who's the person on the other side of this trade? Is this person dumb?

Speaker 1  2:19:05  
If the only reason you've got for someone else doing a trade is that dumb, probably not a very good rationale for doing it. First of all, most people in the market aren't dumb, by the way, being intelligent is not an edge on its own. It gives you the advantage that you're more smart than other people. You can figure things out. That's clearly an advantage. Sometimes you'll hear, Oh, this guy's too smart to be a trader. Well, that's just dumb. That's stupid. Being smart is a good thing, so being smart is an inherent advantage in everything. The problem is sometimes being smart goes along with other character attributes that aren't good. So if you're smart and arrogant, arrogance can be enough of a detriment to overwhelm the smartness, but on its own. Soon being smart is a good thing. I've never met a good trader who I could legitimately say was below average intelligence. All the good traders I know have been pretty smart. So anyway, you need a reason the counterparty might be doing this, the best reason is that they are forced to do something if they're doing something, because they know that there is a big trade coming along, like they are McDonald's, and they know that they're going to have a massive order for pork bellies. That's bad, because that's trading against someone with insider information. But if it's someone who has to trade that's like, legitimately, they're showing you their cards before they play them, that's great. So if they're forced to liquidate a big position, that's great. If there are regulatory constraints of some sort, or there are a mutual fund that wants their position to look good at the end of each quarter, so they'll buy stocks to push them up. That's good because they're not doing the trade in order to make money. They're not looking for edge. They're doing it for a different reason. And if two people are doing things for different reasons, you can both win, because your goals are different, so if you need to adjust for inflows. So here's another example. It's an easy one. There's a lot of a lot of investment vehicles now are essentially a fixed split between bonds and stocks. So the classic one is a 6040 portfolio. They'll maintain 60% of their positions in stocks, 40% of their positions in bonds. So if during the month, stocks go up a lot, they will end up with a higher proportion of their money in stocks than they need, but that also means they've got a lower proportion in bonds. So two things they have to do, the first one is they have to sell some stocks, and the second one is they have to buy some bonds. But they've got money, right? They've made money because the stocks they held went up. So the thing they most have to do is transfer some of that money they've made in stocks to bonds. So they might sell some stocks, but what they're really going to be doing is buying bonds. So just before the end of the month, maybe like four or five days before the end of the month, and I'm saying maybe four or five because that isn't the crucial bit, okay, but before the end of the month, take a look. Have stocks gone up more than bonds have gone up during that month? If they have buy bonds, because they you know, these funds are going to come in and buy bonds to rebalance. So if stocks have outperformed bonds towards the end of the month, buy bonds. It doesn't even really matter what bonds you buy, because they're going to buy a whole bunch of things, and that's going to push up the entire universe of bonds. So you can just buy a bond ETF, and that thing works. That's worked for the last, I don't know, couple of decades. Okay, so after you figured out what is going on, why it might be going on, look for why it could be wrong. Okay, look for, what am I missing here? What could really mess me up here? So am I seeing the thing that's unusual incorrectly?

Speaker 1  2:23:46  
Maybe I'm seeing something, but it's really an artifact of something else. So maybe this is only working because something else is working. So maybe this only works in, I don't know, deflationary environments. Maybe it only works in high volatility environments, maybe, maybe not. But these are the things you have to ask yourself, and you do the best you can to find out if this is true. But don't jump ahead once. I'm going to show you again how you should be doing this in a sloppy, fast way, not a really detailed way. The next one is, is this going to be around? And am I going to be able to trade it? If you found something that can only be traded using a product you can't trade? Well, that's useless, right? So don't find something and then go, Ah, I need to do a dividend swap here. I'm now going to go and find a way to do dividend swaps, get on with your life. There's other things. Yeah, when I say robust implementation issues, something people in academics often assume incorrectly and traders, is they will do something. And it turns out that they have to a lot of the edge comes from things that are hard to trade. Like it will involve them shorting very low cap stocks. And that's difficult because it's hard to get the ability to short very low cap stocks. It's an illiquid thing, or it will involve them selling tons of very, very illiquid options. So you have to look to see, is there something that I can't do here? A really good risk manager once told me that a bad trader when they're looking at a new idea, says things like, and furthermore, and also, and he's keeps coming up with more and more reasons for why the trade is good, whereas a good trader is immediately looking for, why am I wrong here? What's the bad thing here? So a good trader is always checking himself, like on the other hand. So if you're saying on the other hand, hmm, that's a good sign, okay? And again, you'll never know anything, right? We are trying to make the best decision we can in an inherently uncertain environment. That's why you make money. You don't make money for doing things that you know are true. You do. You make money for doing things that are probably true. Incentives. Again, see that, I think this comes out in the counterparty part. It's good if they are winning as well, because if everyone wins, it's because they've got different goals. So, yeah, I've already said this basically, and considerations as you put all this together, which, again, I don't really think that needed its own slide. Okay, this gets easier if I show you an example. And this is a trade that I actually did

Unknown Speaker  2:27:02  
okay

Speaker 1  2:27:05  
on Monday, August the fifth, 2024 the previous night, the Nikai had gone down a lot. I can't remember the number, like 8% or something, and the volatility futures overnight spiked over that next day, the NASDAQ volatility went below the S P volatility. Usually that is not the case. The NASDAQ is a more volatile market than the S P. So that is the thing that I know. I know that this thing here is the usual thing. So when that didn't happen, I'm in an unusual situation. So just a few stats. When I saw this, I ran a few really quick stats. And the important thing is not to do it perfectly, but to do it quickly, because this is an unusual situation. It won't be around forever, so I need to do it as quickly as I can. It's a trade off right between doing it really well and really fast. So again, you've gotta make a judgment call for what that is. But if it's going to take you a month to do the analysis, you're not going to be able to do this trade. But if the analysis you do in a day is so bad, well you don't want to do that trade. So I did some really quick stuff. What I literally did was I went to the CBOE website, I grabbed daily data for the NASDAQ volatility and the S P volatility, or I might even got them off Yahoo Finance. You can get this stuff anywhere I looked at the average ratio. So this is fixed volatility, sorry, NASDAQ, vix over vix fix. Usually the NASDAQ is about 24% higher than the S, P volatility. So

Speaker 1  2:29:24  
okay, so I was going to send, I sort of sent this answer privately, but it's a good question. So the question is, was negative oil price a an inefficiency? Because this happened, like, I don't know, seven or eight years ago, price of oil went negative. And I mean that clearly is an inefficiency. No, not clearly. It is clearly an unusual situation. So that is definitely one of these kind of situations. Like, oh, wow, oil is negative. Wow. People are giving away. A thing that is usually a valuable commodity. So that is definitely an unusual situation. You can start to do this with I don't remember the details of how to make money doing that trade. I know that there were wrinkles and implementation issues which I can't remember what they were. I wasn't involved in oil, but definitely, that's a really great place to start. So anyway, NASDAQ volatility is usually 25% ish higher than S P. I calculated the average and the median, not for any great reason, except I always calculate the average and the median right. Average is the thing that's most important in our trades, because average is the thing that most ties to edge. But it doesn't hurt to know the median, either. It always helps to know the distribution of things. We know it's got a maximum of this. But more interestingly, the minimum is 90% so the minimum is VIX, sorry, NASDAQ VIX has been 90 sorry, yeah, NASDAQ VIX has had a minimum value of 90% of the VIX. Also really important is that this inequality has been broken only 3% of the time. So this is a genuinely unusual situation. Now I just plotted it here as a time series. Again. Visualize as many things as you can. There is a statistical concept called chi by i where you replace doing a proper statistical test, the Chi test, with looking at a time series. Statisticians hate this, and they call it stupid. As a trader, I think it's logical. This is the place to be. Eyeballing a time series gives you a lot more information, a lot more quickly than a statistical test would not saying, Don't go on and use statistical tests later, but always start by looking at it. So I'm saying the weird thing is, I did this since 2020 that's an arbitrary choice, right? I could have done this going back, it's like to 2007 or something, when the NASDAQ vix was listed, but I didn't because I wanted to do something that was relatively, relatively recent. I also wanted just myself to include covid, because that was a unusual period. So I wanted to see if this only ever happened during covid. But I also didn't want to use really old data. This is always a judgment call with anything. If you use a long data series, you get things that are statistically more valid, but only if your assumption is that the process is constant. So it's always a trade off between using more relevant, shorter data series and longer data series that might not be as relevant. Totally a judgment call. So I just said I'm going to use five years because I want to include covid. If covid Hasn't happened, maybe I'd only use three. But don't know, didn't have to go through that process because covid had happened. So anyway, I know basically this inequality went below one during covid. And there's also a tiny little blip here, but certainly in the regime we are in, it's an unusual thing.

Speaker 1  2:33:35  
And the distribution, again, I plotted it, just because I always plot these things, doesn't tell me anything I didn't really know. I know the average is around here. There's a bit of a negative skew to it, and that's to be expected, actually, because this is an unusual event, and an unusual event usually corresponds to a stress situation, there's usually negative skews associated with those. So the actual numbers here, I found out about this on Monday. Right? How I found out about it was two people emailed me and someone DM me. So this didn't happen so quickly that I didn't have a chance to think this happened because it was out there long enough that people actually started talking about it, and you might not have those people email me. That's not entirely my point. The point is, the more you are plugged into a market, the more likely things like that are to happen to you. So talking to other traders, being in trading groups. All of these things can help. But anyway, like I said, the important thing for me is this wasn't a transient blip. So on Monday, remember it opened, sorry, on Monday at the close. So a day after this thing went nuts, overnight, that ratio. Closed at point nine, one, and remember, only 3% of the time is it below one the next day it opened at point nine, six. Okay, so that is good and bad. It's bad in that the mispricing isn't as crazy as it was the day before, but it's also good, and then it gives me some sort of reassurance that this thing is a temporary blip and it might be correcting. Okay, so that's it's not always a bad thing if you see your edge decaying, surprisingly to some people, because edge decaying is sort of what you'd expect if the edge was more real to start with. So don't go overboard on that. You don't want edge to be plummeting off a cliff. But you also want to be aware that just because it's going down doesn't mean you should panic. Okay, so this is now I'm pretty convinced in an unusual situation, and I want to somehow do a trade to take advantage of it. Now, I've done this analysis with the VIX, and the VIX is an index. You can't trade the VIX. Some people might say that that's a bad thing to do analysis with. And I would agree, if I had a ton of time, if I had a ton of time, I would have done this differently, but I didn't. I wanted to bang this out, throwing these numbers into a spreadsheet. I don't even think I use Python for this. I don't think I did, because these pictures are from spreadsheets. I wanted to do something quickly, and this was quick, right? So I did it with the VIX, but now I have to take it to the next level and say, Well, actually I can't trade the VIX. What do I do? I could trade vix futures, but I can't trade Nasdaq futures, because these hardly trade. So what I did was, remember, I'm now saying S, P volatility is too high relative to the NASDAQ volatility. Cleanest way to do that is trade volatility futures. A dirty way to do that, that I can definitely do is to buy that Q, Q, Q options and sell spy options. And these happen to be the at the money strikes for each of these different products. Okay, so this was August the fifth. I have to choose an actual I've chosen the simplest volatility structure I can think of, straddle versus straddle. I'm not testing that two reasons. First, that's kind of cheating, because it only works when I test it in certain things, like certain different strikes. That makes me less confident. So I don't want to do that, because it's only going to lead to overfitting. But also, this is only happening in stress events. Stress events don't test very well, because every time there is a stress event, it's going to be different from the last one. Unusual, by definition, means something weird has happened, so something normal markets are all the same. That's what it means to be normal, but unusual means that different. So if I tested this to see what happened the last time this happened, I mean, who knows what result I would have got, because covid was a totally different place than a blip caused by the the the

Speaker 1  2:38:38  
neck, eye dropping instantly, the s, p, hardly went down that day. This wasn't an S P going down event. This was a liquidation event in options, because the option volatility world went crazy. The stock market didn't so I have to decide anyway, what tenor I want to buy. This is a trade off. If I buy very, very short term options, I might not be getting enough or giving myself enough time. I might not be giving myself enough time for this thing to correct itself. So even though we're trading, the trading day is going to be Tuesdays. That will be sixth of August. I'm like, Okay, I want to give it enough time, so I'm going to choose September 20 options. They were the monthly expiration, the second monthly expiration. Again, totally a trade off. I wanted to do short term options to give myself the most bang for the buck, but I also wanted to do it enough time that it was going to have a chance to collapse. So I did it using September options on the sixth of August, and I. Exited on the 13th for a profit. Why did I exit on the 13th? Why didn't I keep the whole thing? Well, on the 13th, that ratio had gone back to roughly a normal number, so my edge was that ratio is wrong. When my edge went away, I got out. That's another important thing, which I haven't got on a slide, but it's really important for you to know you get out of a trade when there's no edge left. Okay? You don't get out of a trade because you've made money or because you've lost money. Don't have profit targets and don't have stops. What you should have is an idea of what your edge is. At each moment in time when you have no edge, you get out and like I said right at the start, sometimes that means you've made money, sometimes that means you haven't made money, but you've got no edge left. Whether you've made money or haven't is irrelevant at that point

Speaker 1  2:41:09  
okay, so someone asked, How do you know this is an anomaly, or the NASDAQ reacted faster and the s, p is reacting slower? Well, I know it's an anomaly because I've looked at the historical stats and the fact that the NASDAQ reacted faster and the S and P reacted slower is almost a statement of what actually is happening. I hope that this is going to come back into line. And come back into line would be an example of that S P volatility catching up to the NASDAQ volatility. So I can make, oh, sorry, the other way around, right? I can make money by whether the I'm putting on a relative volatility trade here. I can make money based on that spread coming back into line, either by the queues going higher, or the s, p coming lower. I just need that spread to come down. So the fact, the fact that one was reacting more than the other, is why the spread happened. And I'm just making a bet here. Do I know? No, I don't know. Could be a million things. This could, or this could have been a a new regime that kicked in. But if after I haven't made money by September the 20th, then I'm done. So, you know, I'm making a bet. So how did time decay affect this trade? Well, basically, I'm long, one set of straddles, I'm short, another set of straddles. The time decay is roughly the same for each one. So there's something you're going to talk about in options later, but time decay doesn't really exist in options. That was a pause because I wanted to make that obvious. Time decay doesn't really exist because the time decay is offset by the expected movement in the underlying so don't get too worried about time decay. What you should be looking at always is volatility mispriced. Because volatility is the thing that's going to give you an edge here, not time decay or not volatility. Mispricing comes out of the option prices, and it looks like time decay, but it's not really okay. So inefficiency. Example here, I knew what normal was. I was plugged in enough to be told this was abnormal. I did a very quick check of the statistics, I found a dirty way to monetize it. How could this have gone wrong? Well, go back to it right model, risk, I could have just been wrong. Maybe this was totally a new thing. Maybe the reason the NASDAQ didn't go up as much is because the stocks that are going to be affected by this are in the s, p, and not the NASDAQ. Maybe it's a completely new environment. Maybe my thesis was I was wrong. My thesis was, this is unusual. It will go back to being usual, whereas maybe usual had changed. So that's the big risk. The second risk is that when I've got it on, if you look here, on long NASDAQ, and I'm short S P options. Well, maybe I'm short the S P options, and maybe volatility does come back into line, but maybe spy itself moves a lot. So here, my trade is based on my view of implied volatility, but maybe I'm just going to be wrong about the realized volatility, or maybe going back to those other things I'm not predicting. Maybe it's I'm going to lose money because of a dividend thing. Maybe I'm going to lose money because they re weight the Q, Q, Q. Maybe that they do that index restructuring thing. But the big risk here is a. I'm wrong. The big risk here is I have model risk.

Speaker 1  2:45:04  
So this is an example. It happened once, and I had this trade on for two weeks. Is it a good trade? Yeah, it was a great trade. How did I select the straddle strikes? They were just at the money straddles, and I'm choosing the at the money straddles, ie where the stock price was, because that gives me the cleanest volatility exposure. Was this a great trade? Well, yeah, it was a good trade. Don't try and think in terms of great, because, you know, reasons will usually be the same. So if you're thinking in terms of great by the amount of money you make. You're really evaluating it on the wrong basis, right? It's great to make money. But that doesn't mean the trade itself was great. This was a good trade, a really solid trade. It happened for two weeks, okay? The last time it happened was in covid, was five years ago. Can you build bread and butter trading world from this? No, there just won't be enough. There won't be enough in things that you notice about. Okay, there will be things happening in the world, but you're not going to be plugged into everything in the world. I just happen to live in the index volatility space, which is why I chose this or saw this so inefficiencies. You cannot base your life around them. You base your life around the risk. Premier, the big one being options are mispriced, and we'll talk about you'll talk about that a lot, but this is a good trade, but not a thing to base your life on. You.

Speaker 1  2:46:44  
Yeah. I mean, how do you see these in real time? Lots of ways, like I said, right? I mean, I saw this because someone told me about it, and that it's really a matter of just being plugged in and staying as up to date with the news as you can and I don't mean news as in, like CNBC and stuff. I've never watched CNBC. I've literally never picked up the Wall Street Journal. I picked up the FT but I need to give it to someone else, so not that kind of news. I just mean that the statistics of what's going on in the markets, like every day, I monitor the ratios between S, P volatility, Dow volatility, NASDAQ volatility. I look at all the forward volatilities. I look at the skews. Basically, I just keep monitoring these things in real time. So in your little market world, and you're not going to be trading the whole world, right? Either other people tell you about it, or you are actively monitoring it all the time. So someone's asked, Do I think the gold to silver ratio is displaying such an anomaly? Recently? Very good question. I have no idea, but it's a good question, and you should probably look at the same sort of analysis in that it would be a decent place to start. Maybe I'll have a look at that some time today. So it's a good question, and that's the sort of thing you should be looking at. Gold is clearly, well, sorry, silver clearly doing something crazy. So have a look. So would I say this is an anomaly or an inefficiency? Well, it's definitely, I think it's both right. This market I'm betting will come back into line, but there's no structural reason it has to come back into line. It's just statistically, this is the way it's lived. So when I say there's a risk Premier and inefficiencies are different. You've got to also remember no black and whites, right? There's always a gray area. You've just got to make the best decision you can in the time you've got. So I think I've said this, there is no definitive rule of when you decide to something's good enough. There's no if a sharps greater than two drawdowns less than 15% there's no single number. You should accept that and not look for a single number or a single rule. It's all about trade offs. It's all about am I basically happy with this thing? I think I've totally said that already. Okay, this is the most important thing, though, is to have some sort of plausible reason for why that trade is there. And my reason for this one is, this is a liquidation event stocks, stocks themselves aren't actually moving that much. People must be getting out of options and depend. And this is all, again, everything's dependent, right? This is dependent on how the plausibility of the reason depends. Well, how good the reason you need is depends on how big the effect is. This was a crazy effect, right? So I was just like. I mean, seems good enough to me. Wham. If I'd waited and done three days worth of research, then the opportunity would have gone away. But you generally want a reason. You want your edge to be based on a phenomenon, and not just by looking at numbers, and also if the own if you're just looking at numbers, the only feedback you're going to get for how good a strategy is is your P and L. And remember, the P and L of any individual trade is really, really random. Like, even if you find a 55% coin, you should be as rich as that Malian King, who was the richest person ever, but you can still blow up if you bet all of your money on it, on one toss of the coin, right? There's still 45% chance you're going to lose. I'm going to gloss over this because I want to get to this, and we're going to run out of time. I will go over time, because I got messed up by both zoom and PowerPoint,

Speaker 1  2:51:06  
and we will get through to the end of it. But anyway, I want to talk briefly about reviewing trades. Reviewing trades is very important. It is mainly important because the more you can get immersed in what you're doing, the more likely you are to see things that are changing. So when I said that, I track NASDAQ vix and vix and the Dow and all this stuff, I don't mean I have a report that gets auto generated every morning. Could I do that? Yeah, fine. What I mean is I type numbers in every morning into a spreadsheet, and that takes me 15 minutes. You may think, well, that's 15 boring minutes. I could automate that and you could, but you should never automate something because you can. You should automate something because you have to. Because the more automation you do, the less feedback you get, and by actively engaging, you will learn more. I can't tell you exactly what it is you will learn in any case, but that's sort of what you're paid to do, is to be in the market. So be in the market if you just automate everything there's you're not going to look at it. You might think you will, but you really won't. If you just get the same email report every morning, eventually you're just going to start hitting Delete, whereas if you are forced every day to interact and make the thing that is much, much better. Now, automation has its place, but you automate needs, not wants, because doing things manually is the better way to do it again. No one, no one ever believes that, but come talk to me again in 20 years. Okay, so I do want to tell you, though something you can get wrong when you're reviewing trades, and you should like at the end of the day, I have a list of all the strategies and sub strategies I'm using on the top of a spreadsheet, and I type in the P and L for each individual one every day, so I know how things are doing. The bad thing that I can take from that is to change stuff. So what I mean by that is, obviously, if something hasn't worked and it's had a historical Sharpe ratio of five, and it hasn't worked for three months, I'm going to stop trading it at that point, because statistically, I don't like that, the chances are low. But this I'm going to tell you about is the trap. You can do that wrong. Let's say I've based my strategy on 1000 observations. This is my back test, right? These are the results of my strategy. I just made these up, not important. So I've got 1000 observations. Then I trade this thing, because I had an edge in the past, and I trade it, and I trade it for a month, right? So I've got 20 observations, and they look like this, and I don't really have an edge here. Okay? The bad thing that I could do here is say this doesn't work anymore, and I've been watching it, and I know the reason it doesn't work. It doesn't work because it doesn't work on Thursdays. All of these losses, they happened on Thursdays. So this is a problem. I shouldn't trade it on Thursdays anymore. So what I'm doing is I'm taking a statistically valid look at the world. Don't want to call it back test, really, because don't like that word. It's statistically valid over 1000 observations, and I'm literally changing it based on 20 different days and three things that happened statistically. Hopefully you would all realize that makes no sense, but when you're in it, it seems. Seems to but all I'm doing is I'm attaching a narrative to noise. Okay, I don't know that Thursdays, you know, have made any difference. Could I go back and see what Thursdays have done in the past? Maybe that could be a legitimate thing, because I'd have 200 observations of Thursdays. But what I should so that's you know in this example, but what I definitely should not do is start changing things based on the result of a very short time period. It will feel different to you once you're trading something than looking at a back test, looking at a back test. In this case, imagine what you'll know after you've been trading something for four years. That's what the back test corresponds to. But when you're trading something a month, feels like a long time.

Speaker 1  2:55:57  
Yeah, but when you're doing a trade, there are certainly things you can learn when you're actively doing it that you won't learn in back tests. So you can learn that execution is actually much more difficult than you thought it was. It's sometimes difficult to estimate execution, particularly with adverse selection. It's difficult to know if you would have got filled, because your interaction in the market changes the market. So even in the back test, if you assume your transaction costs are going to be what you see in the market when you back tested, I mean, that's the best you can do, but you don't know if that's what's going to happen in real life, because your interaction with the market, by definition, has changed things. So a lot of trading is about becoming comfortable with things that other people are uncomfortable with. And I've already said that applies to edge right? That applies to the fact that if you're doing something that other people are scared of, there's probably edge in that that's a risk premium. So you have to be more comfortable taking that risk than they are if you want to get a risk premium, but you don't want to take the risk. That's not going to work. So you do have to become uncomfortable in situations of being uncomfortable, but that's not to say this isn't a tough way to get through life. If you cannot handle that, there's nothing wrong with you as a person, but it's not going to work for you as a trader. So there are a few tricks I use. And look, I'm not a psychiatrist, I'm not a psychologist, but I've done this for a long time, and these literally are things I do. If you go into a trade and you assume you've already lost all of your money, and you can convince yourself that's true, then anything that happens after that is just upside, and you feel much better, so you've visualized the downside. So what happens after? That's going to make you feel better? I do that all the time, like I've got a position on right now, and I could lose, I don't know, 100,000 bucks tomorrow. That would be bad. That would be like, a really bad case. But it could happen. So what I'm going to do before I bring my trading screen up tomorrow morning is I'm literally going to be like, damn it, I'm going to lost all that money. Damn it. Is such a bad start to the week. Then I'm going to open the trading screen, and if I see that I've only lost 50,000 I'll be like, Oh, cool. That's way better, because losing money is really bad in comparison to what you thought could happen. So if the results are better than what you'd envisaged, you'll feel much better. Another trick is to kind of have this kind of mental time machine and assume that, you know, in 10 years, this is just going to be another day, and that's why, when I said looking at a back test is much easier than looking at it in real life, that's why, because you're not living through each bad day of the back test, right? I'm not living in real time, through through all of these days, whereas here I did live through these days, and it just feels different. But in 10 years, it's not going to be different at all. You're going to have lots of bad days and lots of good days. So someone said, I presume you don't automate your trades. I automate the trades that I need to automate Absolutely. So I've got one thing that involves quoting a lot of different options. You there's no way I could do that manually. Whereas I've got another trade that I put on every morning and I have to rebalance this thing takes me five minutes. I don't I don't automate that. It doesn't hurt me to spend five minutes typing some stuff in. I. Um, so, yeah, I don't automate that because I don't have to. And you've got to also realize for me to automate that it's going to take, well, not me, but it's going to take someone probably a week of their time, five minutes a day, for me is a much better use of resources than a week of some tech guy, and once you've automated it, you're almost certainly going to make a mistake somewhere, and making that mistake could wipe out, monetarily, any advantage you have by doing the automation. So someone's asked, How do you hedge an edge, which is about as big a question as you possibly could have, and you're going to be talking about that for over the next bit of the course five years. Sorry, five weeks. Okay, I want to give you a little bit of a set of tools for psychology, how to manage these things.

Speaker 1  3:00:55  
As I said at the beginning, psychology is the least important thing. If you have good psychology, you're not going to screw things up. If you have bad psychology, you will, but if you have good psychology and a terrible trading strategy, it's not going to help you. It can destroy edge. Furthermore, it can destroy your life, right? Because if you're making yourself so miserable, then that's just not much of a way to go through life, even if you are making money. So there are common issues. Some of them are traders block, where you're like, stuck. You're like, Ah, I don't know what to do. I can't do anything. I'm too scared to put a trade on. The opposite is wildly over trading, particularly you're losing money. You're like, right? What do I do now? I'll do another trade. I'll do another trade. I'll do another trade. You might stay in positions where you don't have any edge, and the only reason you're staying in is because you're down money and you want to make that money back. And the big one to me, I think, is not even having an inkling where you could be wrong, because that leads to massive number of mistakes. You just can't you haven't done that process where you've said, on the other hand, you're always just like, I'm totally right. I'm totally right. The market's going to come around to me. These are real problems. Something I find weird, actually, is all the people who say psychology is the most important thing don't actually do anything to address it. They just say that and then, like, I'm going to try harder. And that doesn't work, right? Trying harder to eliminate a bad habit you've got doesn't work because it really just you're not changing anything that led to that habit. So there is a way you can change things. And again, I'm not I'm not a professional at this, but I do do this in my own trading there's a thing called cognitive behavioral therapy. When you think of therapy and psychologists, you probably think of lying on a couch talking about your childhood or something that's no use to us. Cognitive Behavioral Therapy doesn't attempt to change the cause of your problem. It attempts to give you a set of tools to manage and cope with the problem. Essentially, it's like you self coaching yourself. That's what self coaching means, I guess, and it has been shown to be useful for addiction and depression treatment. And if you look at sports psychology, a lot of the things they do can be traced back to this. I haven't read anything in the trading world directly applying this, apart from actually our last book with Andrew Mac, where we've got a chapter on it. I think it's very useful because it does exactly the things you need. It doesn't change the fact that you will be scared or overconfident, but it gives you a way to manage it. Incidentally, the best way to manage all of these problems is to act like an adult. First, don't think that trading is any sort of uniquely stressful job. It isn't if you're doing trading properly. It tends to be boring more than stressful. If you want a stressful job, try educating a bunch of five year olds. Try working in a bar at midnight on a Saturday, try Rush Hour at McDonald's. Your job is not any more stressful than anyone else's, so you have to get out of that. Trading is uniquely difficult job. No one can appreciate me. It's not and actually, this is also a place where professionals have a big advantage. If you're a professional, and you tell your boss, I've got traders block today, I can't do anything. He'll fire you. And he should, if you're a plumber, and you tell your boss, I've got plumbers block, so I'm not going to unblock this drain, you're useless to him, he's going to fire you. So if you're a professional. You have to do this stuff. And if you find yourself in that position and you have to do it, you'll find it's actually not that hard to do. So if you're in a situation like this, act like an adult. A lot of these problems can be dealt with by you just not thinking you're special. Think of it as going to work, doing your job, but in terms of specific bits of advice, one of the things that's really helpful is to get outside your own head, try to observe you as if you were talking to someone else. And it's kind of like, once you do that,

Speaker 1  3:05:40  
it makes it seem like your problem is less of an issue. So literally, talk to yourself like, be like, Look, I know you can't trade right now because you're nervous, but you know, what's the worst thing that can happen? You might lose this amount of money. Well, so what you've lost money before you've made it back doesn't matter. Just come on, you're okay, even if it involves you making an imaginary friend that that helps, and, you know, differentiate your friend, trick yourself, give him a funny accent or something. This will seem weird, but who cares? Right? The idea is to make money, not to worry about if you feel weird. So talk to yourself as if you were a friend. If your friend was having trouble doing a trade, you wouldn't say, just do the trade. You stupid moron. You're right. You'll probably lose money because you're a moron. We don't talk to other people like that, and talking to ourselves is more powerful than talking to other people, so talk to yourself in a supportive way. Similarly, write down your bad thoughts, because when you've got them in a bit of paper in front of you, often they seem kind of silly. Because if you think I suck, I'm terrible, I'm terrible. That's one thing it gets in your head, it echoes. But if you write it down, I suck. Well, it doesn't look nearly as bad, and you can treat it like any other problem on a bit of paper. At that point, you can be like, Okay, I suck. Well, actually, I've been trading now for five years. I've made money. If I sucked, that wouldn't have happened. I get I've got a job at this firm. Other people think I can make money if I sucked, that wouldn't have happened. It's much easier to write that rebuttal than to talk yourself into that rebuttal. Like I said, You should learn actively. If you're learning actively, it's surprisingly easy to convince yourself that your losses aren't a totally bad thing, because you're learning, okay, you either make money which is good, or you're learning something which is good. What the worst thing you can do is you have a bad day and you just sort of close your machine at the end of the day and walk off. Bad days are the days when you should be doing the most work, not panic working, not trying to over trade, but be like, Okay, I've been putting off doing this analysis on something totally different. I've been putting it off. Didn't want to do it. Do it. You'll make yourself feel better. You'll get some concrete win out of the day. I I really hate the phrase, I don't have profits and losses. I have profits and learning, but that's kind of what we're aiming for. Having goals is very, very important. I think it was Eisenhower that said that planning is incredibly important, but plans are all useless. It's not what happens once you start going through the plan. It is the manufacturing of the plan. So you have a concrete direction to go in, and that direction will always change. But the first thing I do when I get into the office every day is write down a to do list. I have a plan of stuff I'm going to do, and I've found that being to be very, very helpful. And one of the things you should plan is, in this strategy, I think I can make $100,000 a year. Okay, that's a goal. You have to make that goal realistic, because you have to give yourself a chance of hitting it. If that's like, I think in a good year, I'll make $100,000 Excellent.

Speaker 1  3:09:33  
That's and you make $100,000 and you're like, actually, that was a pretty good year. I probably, on average year, probably only make 80,000 Okay, you've made it. You can evaluate that everything's fine. If you say, in the same trade, I'm going to make $5 million this year. Well, you're not, are you? You can't make edge where it doesn't exist. You can't optimize, you know, you can't optimize. Hazim ishness your way to money. So if you set an impossible goal, you're going to fail, and then you will feel bad. Similarly, don't compare yourself to others, because you're only ever going to see others who are doing well, particularly if you're on social media. And actually, you know what, most social media is not going to help you what? The only reason I use it, any of it now, is for DMS. You're only you're not going to see the people who lose all their money. You're just going to see the winners. And you're going to see people exaggerate their winners. You're going to see people sitting in front of a leased Lamborghini telling you how cool they are, comparing yourself to others is only going to make yourself feel bad. So that's useful. Here's where I said I was going to talk about having a dog. It's really important to have a life outside of trading, because first, it's good to relax. But that's not the important thing. The more important thing is that trading itself is incredibly random. On any given day, right? You make money, you lose money, you can't base your self esteem on what happened that day. You can't go through life doing that to yourself. You can't attach your self worth to something that is so random. So having a dog forces you to come home, take the dog for a walk. The dog doesn't care if you had a good day or a bad day. The dog's not like, Oh, I'll make you feel better. I feel sorry for you. He's like, I don't give a crap. Throw the ball, you know. So having something outside of that you enjoy is really important. And the same guy I was talking to about, who said that good traders say, furthermore, he was actually the head Risk Manager of AQR, which is a $20 billion hedge fund. And one of the things he says is he wants traders to have a life outside of trading, because it shows they're not like too wound up in trading. And trading is weird, because in most jobs, if you do more of it, you get better. And you know, if you do more of it, because you want to do it, you really love it, you get involved. Trading is not like that. Trading more isn't the right thing to do. You should trade when you have an edge and not when you don't. So being absolutely focused on the market isn't going to help you, and it might well hurt you. Oath, also, when I'm in a trade, I don't watch the P and L. I monitor the edge, but I don't watch the actual money in real time, because first, it's kind of mesmerizing. It's like, you know, a snake staring at you. But second, it kind of, you're it makes you so up and down. It's so much easier just to turn the screen off. You know you're not going to get into the trade or get out of the trade based on the P and L. I hope you know that that's what I told you. It just doesn't help to watch it. Something you'll find is easy when you when you don't trade an instrument anymore, when you're trading it, you're involved in it, and you're like watching it, like at a natural gas trade on a while ago. And I was watching it every day, and I was really kind of emotionally involved in it. When I deleted it from my trading screen, suddenly I just didn't care anymore. Someone asked me how it was doing. I have no idea. Couldn't tell you. So as soon as you're not watching something, it has much less of a hold on you.

Speaker 1  3:13:46  
So that's a useful thing to do something that won't work is trying harder. It's like, if you're a, I don't know if you've got an athletics coach, and you say to him, I want to know how to run fast. I want to know how to improve. And he says, run faster. That's true, but it's not going to help you. So just doing more of the crap you're doing now isn't going to make you, make you feel any better, trying harder to do the same bad stuff is stupid. You've got to go through this process. One of the problems with cognitive behavioral therapy is that once it's working, you stop doing it because you feel better. It's like with medicine, right? They always say, take all the pills, but you don't, because you take half the bottle, and you're like, I feel much better. I don't need these pills. But the reason you feel much better is because of the pills. It's like that with this, you've got to keep doing it even when you feel better. And it's very easy, after a while, to half ass it and just sort of do it on rote and where originally it was taking you, like, you know, a conscious effort to do it now you're just like, half assing it. Are almost performatively doing it, so you gotta stick with it. The big one that won't work is finding your own style. So people will say, if you don't like selling options, because it makes you nervous, why don't you buy options? Well, the reason you don't buy options is because that's not an edge, right? The reason you sell options isn't because it makes you uncomfortable. You sell options because that's where the edge is, and it happens to be uncomfortable saying, do something your own way. You wouldn't say that in any other job. You wouldn't say that if you're a sports coach, right? You wouldn't say, Oh, you don't like, you know, hitting a golf swing like that. Well, why don't you try holding the other end of the club? There's a right way and a wrong way to do these things. If the way you should do it makes you uncomfortable, maybe that's just you're not cut out for that, and that's fine. Again, there are this doesn't make you a good person or a bad person, but doing something you want to be comfortable with is probably not going to make you a good trader, because you get paid to do the uncomfortable things other people don't want to do. All right. So that leads me to the conclusion, which is, I hope you have good luck, because luck is really important, and don't let anyone tell you, it isn't. It's important in the short run for any trade. It's important in your career as well, right? If you graduated in 2008 you were just completely screwed. No one was hiring. If you graduated in 1998 you were going to get hired no matter what idiot you were. So luck is always involved in life. All you can do is do your best and try to minimize the effect of it, and I hope you do. And please if you have questions, do email them in I have no problem with answering them. You can find me on LinkedIn. But like I said, I don't check it very often, so don't expect particularly quick responses to anything. And other than that, I really appreciate you all turning up. You've asked some great questions. I hope you do well, remember, trading is hard. You're not going to get it in a week, but it's also the only job I've ever wanted, the only job I've ever had, so I hope you enjoy it as much as I do you.

