Speaker 1  0:05  
Hello, everyone. This is Tom Stark speaking. I'm just wondering if everyone can hear me. If you do, maybe you could just leave me a quick message in the questions and answers box, just to be sure. And, oh, thanks so much, Manikandan. Great. Yeah, so it sounds like you can see me, you can hear me. That's fantastic. So, welcome to the PCA and Statistical Arbitrage course today. I hope I can give you a really nice lecture today. So, what I'm talking about today will be very much from my own practice. So, a lot of what I'm talking about is really just things that are tried and tested in real life trading settings. So, it's very practical. I show you a lot of the sort of practical details. It's mostly in Python today, so it's not much as much as a presentation as it is like a real sort of going through some code and some real practicalities. So I hope you will enjoy it very much. Now, just a little bit about myself. I run a company called AAA Quants, where I do a lot of consultancy and also some educational stuff for the financial industry. My main work at the moment is research and developing automated and systematic trading strategies for a large multi billion dollar hedge fund. So I'm very much right in the thick of it. I've been developing trading strategies for about 20 years, so it's been quite a while since I've been doing this. I actually started very much with automated trading. My background is physics. Before I got into finance, I was an engineer, and I've got a PhD in physics. So, the way I approach the markets is basically a little bit from that angle. Now, that is not to say that you need to approach the market from that angle, there's many, many different ways to do it, and that's actually what's nice about trading. Wherever you come from is really suitable if you're interested in this sort of thing, and I mean, I've seen over the years people from many different ways. Oh, thanks, Subin. Thanks for following me on YouTube. There is many, there's many people, you know, there's philosophers, there's artists, you know, even sports people. I've seen a lot, so if you are not like super, so to speak, smart in, let's say, mathematics, and so on, you can still do well, and I mean, today we're actually talking about a bit of a mathematical subject, which is principal component analysis. I sometimes call this the Swiss Army knife in quantitative trading. It's a technique that is so ubiquitous that you know people use it for many, many, many different purposes, and unfortunately I can't really cover all of these purposes today because there's just way too many. So, what I want to do today is I want to give you a flavor of different applications and the variety of different applications that you can use PCA for, and at the same time, principal component analysis is quite intimately linked to trading type, which is called statistical arbitrage, and statistical arbitrage, in many cases, when people use it, they use principal component analysis to go along with it. So I decided quite a few years ago when I started this course to put the two together and make a whole course out of it. So also I hope that makes it a bit more interesting for you, because we're actually talking about real trading strategies, and again, what I'm showing you today, this is very much how I do my research, how I use code, and so on, and it's very practical. So I'm not trying to show you something that is somewhat abstract, or so sometimes also I get questions from people, and say, oh, some sometimes your code is a little bit inefficient, or it looks inefficient, and that's often on purpose, because what you find is in trading strategies, when you run them, sometimes you want the code to be readable or sense making to someone who. Some, you know, when things go wrong and you're not there, and they need to quickly get into it, they need to quickly understand it. Then it really helps them to actually see it, even though, if it's even though it's not the most efficient piece of code ever, it's actually useful, it's readable, it's understandable, and so on.

Speaker 1  5:19  
So, there's, you know there's many reasons for why you would do things in a certain way, and trust me, in the 20 years I've been in this business, I've been through everything. I started pretty much from zero when I was an engineer. I basically just thought, oh, would it be nice to just build some system that can trade my super fund, and you know, because I know some programming, and I know some, you know, I know research and data science, and all that. I could just build some automated system that trades my super fund, and one day I can lie on the beach and just let the machine do all the hard work for me. Now the lying on the beach has never materialized, unfortunately. But what has really happened was that I found a calling, and I found something that I personally actually found way more interesting than physics, because it's quite different, and the financial markets are in some sense quite broad, and they are a very interesting mix of many disciplines, so you know we've got obviously trading, but we've got economics, but we've got computer science, statistics, mathematics, and a couple more, actually interestingly, specifically in recent years, me and some of my colleagues, we have quite deep philosophical discussions about how to trade markets, and you might think, well, why is that, but once you get to a certain level, it becomes in some ways interesting, because instead of just writing code, you follow certain thought directions. I just want to give you an example, so we're looking at, you know, what is actually that makes systematic traders successful these days, and my take on it was on my angle that if you, for example, want to be a great lawyer in a great corporate lawyer, you want to basically find ways to make your company money through the law, and so what you actually need to do is you need to understand the law to quite a lot of detail, and then effectively understand the loopholes in the law, so I'm not saying the illegal stuff, but the loopholes in the law that just allow you to work within legality, but actually use those missing bits that are not in the law to help making money for your company, and it's similar in trading when you actually really get to the sort of more mastery level of it. What you actually need to really do is understand quite a broad spectrum of what exists in trading and quantitative trading, but also in economics, in macro economics, and fundamental, and all these sort of things, and really then see, well, what's actually not been done. What are people not doing? Where's, where's like inefficiencies in that large system? Because nowadays with AI, there's just so much stuff coming out, and so many people doing things, so you have to be extremely creative, but the creativity really comes out of the understanding of what's not there. What, what, what are we not seeing, and really become sensitive to that, and if you can do that, if you have this real understanding, you can most likely become a good trader. Now, I know this is not an easy path, but no one ever said it's easy. It means, like, with any field, if you want to get good at it, you have to actually put the hard work into it, so today I want to teach you some of my favorite techniques that I use on a regular basis. I use them quite creatively, and hopefully you can do the same. Now, before we get started, just a little bit of housekeeping. If you want to ask me questions, please feel free to do so in the questions box. I try to answer them on the go. Sometimes it might take a little while. However, if you do answer the questions, then I would prefer if you only ask the question once we've actually talked about this specific part of my presentation, and not before, because otherwise everyone else will get confused, and then you know I have to jump back and forth, and it's just makes it a little bit more difficult for everyone, and so the other thing is, if you ask questions, please write full sentences in good English, I would really appreciate that.

Speaker 1  9:59  
A, so good grammar, if you can, because I have to sit here, talk, and at the same time read your question, and so I have to really think on my feet with the two sides of my brain, and I have to figure out, okay, you know, what am I talking about, what's the question, usually it's a little bit previous from previous things, so if you can help me and really write nice questions, that makes my life much, much, much easier. And finally, if you want to get in touch with me after this, if you have any more questions, or you're interested in something, then you know you can find me on LinkedIn, that's probably the easiest. You could also write me an email if you would like to do so, but I would say LinkedIn is usually the best way to get in touch. If you say, 'Hi, I was in your course on Quant Instity, that makes it even much, much better, because you know, I know straight away. Oh, you're one of my students, and so that really helps. So, thanks very much. This is the introduction. So much now, what I would like to do is, for now, switch my camera off, because we're just talking about serious stuff here, so it's probably not necessary if you see me the whole time, so with your permission, I'm just switching myself off, but I will still be here, obviously audible. Okay, so let's get started. So first of all, the way I present this here is in Google Colab, and it's a Jupyter notebook within Google Colab. So, Google is providing this nice environment called Colab, which is a programming environment based on a Jupyter notebook, and what's really nice about this is it's actually got most Python packages that we need to do our analysis already pre-installed, so there is very little that we have to do extra, and there's also a few other advantages. For example, if you like to work like myself in cafes and instead of your office, then often you know you run into the issue that laptops lose a lot of power, especially if you do quite in hungry simulations, and so on, and if you work on something like Google Colab, you can actually just run your simulations on a remote server, and that doesn't actually chew through your battery on your laptop so quickly. There's a few other advantages in Google specifically, you can also tap into their higher, better computing power, so you can set, you know, TPU, you want to use a TPU, TensorFlow processing unit, so it's like good for AI, and so on, and you know it's got a few advantages. Now, now, the disadvantage is that when you do this, you obviously give Google some of your information, and so specifically, if you work in a company where things are quite sensitive, that could be a little bit dangerous. So, just be aware of that, might not always be the best thing, but for our purposes I think this is really quite excellent. So the first thing we want to do today is to actually start going through what is principal component analysis, and in order to do that, what we do is we first build a principal component analysis from scratch. Now, don't be afraid, this is actually not that difficult. It's a little bit of linear algebra, but not super hard. And once we've done this, we look at some applications of PCA. We look at what you know, what can you do with it? Why is it such an interesting thing? Once we've done that, we dive into the idea of statistical arbitrage a little bit, and so I explained to you how statistical arbitrage works. I show you a trading example, like a back test, and once we've done this, we bring the two together and we use PCA together with statistical arbitrage, and actually, you know, apply it to some real-world strategy, which is effectively, which is actually a strategy that is very heavily used in the industry. It's called index arbitrage. So we'll go through all this today. It's quite a program, and I really do hope you enjoy this. Okay, so let's get started now. First of all, I use for this package called Why Finance, and I do have to install this in Google.

Speaker 1  14:59  
Lab, so I do pip install via finance. This is just the installation process for the program, and then I need to upgrade it just to get the newest version. Otherwise, I get a little bit into trouble, because the old one apparently doesn't work anymore. It's actually pulling the data from Yahoo Finance, and so, once Yahoo updates its API, then why finance won't work so well anymore, and we have to go to a new version, so this could potentially change over time a little bit, you know, different versions, and so what happened to me last time was that actually why finance then changed its structure of the data, and I didn't quite realize that, and then just, just shortly before the course started, I had to reject the whole, the whole program, which was a bit intense, but I did it, and it worked all right. Okay, so once we've downloaded this, we actually also have to import it, so it's not enough just to download it, we actually have to import by finance as well, and we do this here, import by finance as y f, but then we just import like a couple of other modules, and these are the modules that I generally import before I run a back test anyway, and some of them we actually don't really use today too much, so for example, the sci-fi optimizer, we don't need that so much, and some others, so I just have them here just for completeness, because it's the type of stuff I use pretty much most of the time now. Before I jump into the PCA and actually explain it to you, what I would really like to hear from you is what your backgrounds are, because it gives me a little bit of a sense of how I need to pitch my, my presentation today. You know, the level. How mathematically, or how, or should I make it more basic? So, if you could let me know, or some of you, at least, or hopefully all of you, what your backgrounds are. Do you come from finance? Are you a trader? Are you an engineer? Oh, thanks. Hi, Manshu, CPA. Mani Kandan, Chartered Accountant, great Art Sheet Software Engineer Arvins, is less mathematical, better project manager on the desk, great software developer, Man Juna Max software engineer, 2020 years experience. Greetings from the Netherlands. All right, thanks so much. Really appreciate it. So, oh, there's more. Nikolai, physicist. Hey, fellow physicist. Hello, Nikolai. And then we have Shivraj, data scientist consultant, new Python programmer. Yay, then Aryan AI Shreyas, non-coding, non-quant background. Okay. Well, look, Shreyas, just, just want to let you know, if you, you know, if you have any questions, don't, don't be afraid to ask them anyway, so you know people, people are very much from different backgrounds here, and I have the difficult task to somehow cater for everyone, so it's not easy, but I try my best, and I really hope I really hope you know it will be catered for everyone. So, Hamed is an engineer and crucial, a trader. Oh, we've got very few people here from the trading and financial markets, Rag Gavin, he use your financial market technology style, that's cool. Working in a large investment bank, wow, great. So nice, nice cross section. It's, it's a bit more tech heavy today, you know. That changes sometimes. We've actually got more like people from the trading side, sometimes more from the data science or programming side, so okay, so hopefully you will all learn something interesting. All right, so let's get started. So the first thing we will do is to just download a couple of price data, because we want to, you know, run our PCA on some price data, because that obviously gives us a change. Oh, there's heat here as well. Based in India, you are a, you are into property. Being, oh, great, yeah, I used to be in prop trading for a while, very nice, well done.

Speaker 1  20:05  
So we're just downloading some data here, and you can see this here, we just say we just define our tickers, and most of you probably know what these tickers are, SPY is the S and p5 100 ETF, and QQ Q is the NASDAQ ETF that two ETFs based on US stock market indices, and we just define a date range 2012 to 2026 and what I've done here is I've actually downloaded them separately per year, and then I stitch them together, and you can see this here. So I just create a list, I append the yearly tickers, and then I concatenate this list with all the annual stock market prices, and so once I run this, what I actually get is, you can see this here, a pandas data frame, and in the columns you can see there is our QQ and SPY, and then in the rows are our dates from 2012 to end of 2025 so that's pretty straightforward, I hope again, if any of you has any questions regarding that, please feel free to ask. I know not everyone is on the same level here, and some people are very good in something and not so good in others, so don't be afraid to ask some questions now. If we plot those two, we can see well, they're actually fairly correlated with each other. You can see this here, and this is quite interesting. You would say, well, they're actually sort of moving more or less in sync with each other, and this is true to some extent, but there are a few very interesting aspects of this, and before we actually build the real PCA, I just want to point this out to you, because some of you, as I noticed from previous courses, are not necessarily always familiar with the way of looking at price charts and what you can derive from them. So one of the things, yes, super, that's right. One is Nasdaq, and the other one is the SMP. Excellent. So, one of the things you can do is you can actually, you know, because we've got the prices here, you can actually turn these prices into what we call returns, and the return is nothing else but the day to day percentage change of the prices, and so what you could do then is you can take the day to day percentage change of the prices and then stitch them back together again, and then generate a another price curve out of these, and in some many cases, in fact, this is actually a more informative, so when you're working in professional trading, what you will find is that in most cases you actually work more with returns, so with percentage differences rather than actual prices themselves, so you trade the prices, but the signals often come from these returns, and so it's very good to, you know, use these, and this is what we see here, where actually it's actually a really simple, it's a really simple process, we just go stocks dot pct change, and so we get the percentage changes for these price figures, and then in order to recover the prices, what we do is we need to add one, and then we take the cumulative product, so we're basically multiplying them, so it's just the same as if you, for example, calculated interest over many years, that's what you also do. You go one plus the interest rate, so if your interest rate is 5% you go one plus 0.05 and then we basically bring them back to zero by subtracting one, and so what you can see now is we start at zero, and then we see the price curves. Now you will notice that here they were more or less parallel, here they're not, here they're quite diverging. And why is that? Well, if we actually work with percentage changes, first you notice that the spy actually starts at 100 whereas QQ starts maybe this is around 30 or so, and then they go parallel all the way up, so that means that the price, or if you take the percentage difference from here to here. That's about seven times, but from here to here, that's probably about twice as much, so there's maybe about 15 times, or so, or something like that.

Speaker 1  25:10  
So you can see that, that while this is looking like nice and parallel, when you start both at zero and you look at the percentage differences, you can see that we end up with the QQ Q reaching about double the profit that you would have achieved with the SPY, and so this is already a nice example of how easily one can be fooled just by looking at the chart, you know it looks like quite coherent, but you just look at it in a slightly different way, and suddenly it gives you a very different story. Now, you can also see here that the Nasdaq is actually much more volatile, it's got a lot bigger swings than the SMP, so we say it's got a higher volatility, but then, of course, also a much, much higher overall return than the SMP. Now, here's another interesting aspect of this: when you use, when you use this PCT change, and then you add one and you use the cumulative product, what you're actually, and this is also important when we back test later on, what you're actually assuming is that your profits are straight away reinvested, and if you buy and hold an asset that's naturally so, because as the price goes up automatically, the investment is just higher. So the other case where you don't reinvest your profits would be if you buy and hold and your asset makes, say, a 10% profit, then you take out those 10% and then you can just keep trading. So that would be the non-cumulative case, but what we're actually seeing here is the cumulative case, and you can see that that often these profit curves, they're somewhat exponential, so when you look at them over the long run, they have this sort of exponential property, now in many cases, especially in finance and in quantitative trading, this can be a little bit misleading, because it actually often gives you a quite inflated view of the world. Now, in the case of pure prices, not a big problem, but when, for example, you really want to look at back testing results of your trading strategy, then this can very easily inflate the look of your performance, and so what I generally do is, and a lot of my colleagues do this as well, instead of using a cumulative return, we actually just sum up the percentage returns, and what that means is, effectively, is the what I said earlier, that rather than compounding your profits, you're actually keeping your, your base investment constant. So, let's say you start with $100,000 you make a profit, you actually take that profit out. But interestingly, also, if you make a loss, you have to put that loss back in, so you always stay at $100,000 at each new period, and then you do this, so we call this a non-cumulative strategy, and oftentimes that actually gives you a better view of the world and less inflated profits, and so you can see this here. This actually looks a lot more linear, you know. While we can see here, this, what this exponential property, the non-cumulative one has actually a much more linear property. And so you will see me use this quite a bit, and in my opinion, it's a much nicer way to show things. Okay, so now let's start and do the first step of principal component analysis. Now, what we'll do is we'll go to this through the steps of PCA first. I show you how to do it. It's only three small steps, and then once we've done this, we actually look at some of the interesting applications of it. So, Subin asks, does it reflect real-world case? We normally, we normally leave gains to compound further, Subin, um is said normally, so let's just assume you, I mean, look, if you, if you work as a trader for yourself, maybe you leave it in, but then imagine you're a hedge fund, and at the end of the year you distribute your profits to your hedge fund club.

Speaker 1  29:59  
Clients, um, so you know, you made, you know, you may just take these profits and then distribute them, then yes, it will be very different, you know, or then there is in between cases where you take out some of your profits and you leave some more in, so if you do that, then you would have something in between, so it's not actually clear cut what you do, and basically what I've shown you here is the two extreme cases, and yeah, I mean, as I said, like, there is no, there is no right or wrong, it's just a question of how you choose to see the world and what makes realistic sense. So, as you said, Subin, in the short or medium term, yes, you leave it in, but what about this? In this case, here we've got 14 years. Would you leave the money in for 14 years, or would you take some profits? Well, I don't know. I mean, it's up to everyone, and I've held assets for quite a long time, but yeah, you know, it's, it's, it's a, you know, it's a question of where you at, what you do, and so on, but it's just, it's just good to know that you know you have these different ways of looking at the world. Okay, so I told you about this PCT change, so we can actually look at these returns, and so if we take, if we take the PCT change and we plot this, we will actually see this line here, you can see that there is areas that are a bit wider, and there's areas that are bit smaller, but what you can see is basically these areas that are broader here, there are areas with high volatility, so for example, you can see this here in 2020 you remember the 2020 market crash that had massive volatility. You can really see how this stands out. Then we've got, you know, 2022 there's quite a bit of volatility here as well. But what you see also is that when these volatility, or when the volatility arrives, it's actually kind of a broad, usually a broad spectrum, or it takes a while until the volatility dies off again. That's often called volatility clustering, and it's a very interesting phenomenon, which is also often exploited in trading strategies, because unlike stock prices, volatility is actually a lot more predictable. So, what we need to do in principle components, component analysis is to work with returns rather than prices. You will see in a little while why the main reason is that generally price series, sorry, return series are stationary and price series are non-stationary, and this non-stationarity statistically poses a little bit of a problem, it makes things a bit, a little bit more difficult to deal with, so what we actually want is a more stationary process, and when we turn prices into returns, basically by doing this differencing, this is what we get, and this can actually really help us to make some interesting things, so, so, remember, you know, we've got these volatilities here and here. What you can also see is obviously those, those two return curves here, they're very similar, so we can really say that they are fairly correlated now the one thing we need to do for principal component analysis to work is we actually need to demean our our return series and this is what happens here so we've got our return series here and what we also want to do is we want to drop some of the NA ends these invalid values, so we just drop them, and then what we do is we subtract the average from these, so normally what you will find is that, and this is quite obvious when you, when you have a, you know, stock returns as, as you have them, we, you know, we've shown them previously, and they are going up, then your average will obviously be a non-zero, because you've got these nice, uh.

Speaker 1  34:59  
A trending behavior here, but you know, if you, if you actually want to deal with this, you want to get rid of that, so that's why what we do is we demean them, so that our average is actually centered around the zero line, so we've got our zero line here, and when we subtract the mean of these time series, we center this returns around the zero line, and this is really important for our principal component analysis. So this is step one. Now, if we subtract these, then our time series will actually look quite a bit different, because what we're doing is we're taking out this in in statistics, statistics also we call it drift, or we could also call it a trend, or momentum, and, and you know, if we take this out, we actually see that this picture changes quite a lot, but, but this is not the point that there's actually much, you know, this is this is actually not that important. So this is the basically this time series without the mean, and this is what it ends up being here. Okay, so now we already come to step number two, which is creating a covariance matrix of these, so what we're basically saying is, okay, how how do these two time series vary first within themselves and then against each other. This is what you can see here. So the operation here is simply stocks the mean. So it's basically the stock returns where the mean is subtracted. And then for the covariance matrix we just use this operation dot cov. Once we do this, we get a new data frame out, and we can see there are off diagonals, which are identical, so we can see here and here. This is actually the same values, and these two values here are different. So these two values are actually the variances of our two stocks, and as you can see here, the SPY variance is lower than the QQ variance, and we've already established it previously. We said just by looking at the chart that that NASDAQ is much more volatile than the SPY, and as you know, the variance is strongly related with volatility, so, so we were basically in the diagonals, we're basically looking at these variances, and we can easily derive the volatility from that. The off diagonals basically tell us how spi and QQ varied together, so how they are related in their variances, and you can see that these are two the same values, because this is SPI to QQ, and this is QQ to SPI, so they're always, you know, those off diagonals, they're always symmetrical, those matrices here in the, in the off diagonals. So now this is already step two of the principal component analysis. So there's only, there's only one step left, and for those of you who don't actually do an awful lot of linear algebra. This is maybe the more challenging step, because this is where we calculate the eigenvalues of the covariance matrix, and this, this is what we do here. It's a Lin elk, so Lin alk stands for linear algebra, and I extends for eigenvalues and eigenvectors, so remember S was the covariance matrix, and then we apply this numpy function, I to them, so Sherry has asked straight away, what is eigenvalues and eigenvectors? Um, now it's a little bit, it's a little bit tricky to explain, unless you want to go too deep into mathematical, mathematical things, or geometric, but there is, there is actually in geometry, that's just, you know, sorry, my, the pen here is not so ideal, but, but let's say this is a coordinate system, and we have a let's say we have a vector here in the in this coordinate system, and normally if we want to transform this vector, for example, if we want to rotate it, or or. Of it somewhere. Also, let's just say we want to rotate it. What we do is we apply a matrix to a vector, so we have like a matrix.

Speaker 1  40:10  
So normally you know, you denote these matrices, you know, and they have some entries here, so a two by two matrix, and then we have a vector, so this would be all vector here, so, so this, this is just a, it's basically just a two by one, you know, we've got two entries here, and so if we apply this rotation, which is denoted by a matrix, then we move this vector, and the vector will change. For example, it will just rotate, or something like this. Now, an eigen, an eigenvector is basically a vector that, when we apply a rotation of this, or when we apply this matrix to this vector, this vector doesn't change this vector stays the same, and so usually what happens is when we do this, when we do this transformation, or when we apply this transformation matrix, and it's a two by two matrix, so it's in two dimensions, we usually end up with two eigen vectors, so there's always in a two dimension setting, there's always two vectors that exist that actually don't get transformed under this rotation, so this is also something that is heavily used, for example, in quantum physics, so all the, you know, the basics of quantum physics are based on those sort of ideas of eigenvectors and eigenvalues, but I don't want to go too deeply into this. It's just an interesting fact that we have these analogies as well. So, so that's the geometrical explanation. Now, in terms of our explanation, let me first of all show you what PCA does, and then these things will actually become a little bit more clear. So, could you logically simplify what is an eigenvalue vector reference to the global financial markets? Yeah, so I give you the, I give you the geometrical version of it, you will see the practical version in a moment. Okay, so just give me a moment now. If so, just, just coming back to this, if we apply this eigen vector and eigen value, we'll also see that this matrix has equal entries here and also here, only that in this case the sign is actually different, so when you actually look at these, these two values, the eigen vectors that we get, they're actually the columns of the output here, so we get two so-called vectors, and they are the columns of this matrix that we get out, and what you can see is that the values here are swapped and one is negative, and what that means is there are actually two vectors that are orthogonal to each other, and if you are in the quantitative trading world, the word orthogonal most likely will have heard it a lot, and quants often use the word orthogonal to say that two things are not correlated with each other, so this is actually meaning that you produce things that are not correlated, and the actual idea of orthogonality comes from this eigen systems here, because we will see soon that when we have these vectors, there is basically you generate two systems that have zero correlation with each other. All right, so this is eigenvectors, but what actually happens is when we do this eigen transform here, we get two different things out of it. We get eigenvectors and we get something called eigenvalues, which is this part here, and so each of these values here correlates to an eigenvector, so the first value correlates to this vector, and the second value correlates to this eigenvector, and what you can see here is actually that the first one is much larger than the second one, so you can see this is two times 2.7 to 10 to the minus four, and this is 9.1 10 to the minus six. So, this is much, much smaller, and this is also significant. And we see in a moment exactly why that is. So, bear with me. So, actually, this, this is already a. The PCA done once we have these eigenvectors and eigenvalues, we've actually done the principal component analysis. So, you might say, well, what does it tell me? Well, you know, why? Why did I do this?

Speaker 1  45:16  
And this is what we are going to see next, so this is when it gets interesting, because these justice insight that we get from these few operations here can be extremely profound, and it can be extremely useful in many, many settings in quantitative finance, so again we've produced those eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and so what we can do now is we can take these vectors, because, because they're vectors, obviously they're vectors in space, we can take these vectors and we can plot them in a coordinate system, and and basically just just visualize them and see what happens, so what I've done here is I basically just taken the vector values and turned them into, you know, a line that I can plot on a graph, that's what I've done with this little operation here, so I just, I just take these vectors, I add some values to them, in this case, you know, xx, which is just basically just just some linear points at the at the spy returns, right, and then what I do is I plot them, and what I also do is I plot them against the returns of S P Y and Q Q Q, so I take the returns from S P Y and Q Q Q, plot them, and then I take the eigen vectors, and this is what we see here, so basically that looks a little bit like a united orange line, looks a little bit like a linear regression. Now, what do you see here is that it appears that the actual line should be here, or you would think, oh, maybe if this was a linear regression, a line would be this, but that's actually not true. One of the things is that the points in here are really quite dense, so these points, and we can't really see this in this case, but these points that are in the center here, like effectively around here have so much weight that they actually forced to be the line or the basically the first eigen vector to be along this line. Okay, so just because the points look on the sides a little bit off, that doesn't mean you know they're not like right there, so this line is actually called the first principal component, and it's actually the line that points along the largest variance, or the largest direction of, or the direction of the largest variance in the data set, so when we look at our data set, we can see that the direction of the largest variance is obviously along here, and that's what we call the first principal component, and then the second principal component is usually the light is along the second largest variance, and it's, it's actually perpendicular or orthogonal to the first principal component. Now, in two dimensions, we only have one choice, which is a 90 degree angle. Here, so there is nothing else. Now, if we had three dimensions, this would actually kind of rotate around and would find the point of largest variance around the third dimension, so we would have actually more choice. So the fact that this is locked is only an artifact of the fact that we have a two dimensional system here now. Why did I choose a two dimensional system? Very simple, because if I did it to three dimensional would already quite tricky to plot and quite hard to visualize as well, and four dimensions we can't really even understand very well unless we are Albert Einstein or some of these really smart people that actually used to work with relativity, but luckily for us, we don't need to understand really what goes on in four dimensions. Mathematically, it's always quite equivalent. We just have to understand that anything higher than three dimensions, we can't really visualize it anymore, or not at least with some big. Difficulties, all right. So we shall ask, are these principal components the same as eigenvectors? Absolutely, yeah. So these principal components are actually our eigenvectors, so you know we call them principal components for a reason, which basically, what principal components do, they give us a, they point us to a structure in the data set, so it basically tells us, okay, here we are, here our principal components, and what they do is they give us the underlying structure in our data set, and you might say, well, this is pretty obvious.

Speaker 1  50:50  
Well, it's obvious in two dimensions, but once we get to higher dimensions, and you know, in financial data, this is really easy to achieve. All we need is, say, five different stocks, or 20, or 100 different stocks. Then suddenly the structure in this data set is not obvious anymore. It becomes quite complex, and the interesting thing is that a principal component analysis will give you the structure in terms of numbers that you can then use to make further decisions on what you would like to do with them, so it gives you an insight into the structure of your data set, which is incredibly powerful. So Sharia asks, What does the first and second component signify well in this case. Again, it's pretty obvious. The first component is basically, you know, the it's kind of similar to a linear regression. There are some small differences, which I will talk about later, but it's similar to effectively a linear regression, and the second component is orthogonal to this. Now that's not, that's, that's pretty trivial, but it actually gets quite interesting. For example, what we could do is we could take images of people's faces and apply PCA to them, and suddenly there's some interesting things emerging, because what we then see is that, for example, each of those higher principal components, even though we have lots of different faces, they show the same features again, so the first principle component might be the mouse and the second principal component might be the eyes and the third principle component the nose and so on, so when you do this PCA on different data sets, you can often see the underlying structure of the data set, and the same, you know, you can do this, say, for handwritten digit recognition, and then PCA will often be able to extract the digits from your handwriting, and so on. So it's really able to effectively look at the structure of your data set, and then make some inferences of what this means, so for example, if you do handwriting recognition, then you apply PCA, and what you usually will see is that you know the principal components for one digit point in a specific direction, which is always similar, for even if the handwriting is very different in many cases, and then, so let's say digit one points in this direction, but then the principal components of digit two point in a completely different direction, and so on, so, so there's many, many applications in non-financial areas and but you know, you know, in finance, obviously, it did this again. There's many, many things. So one other thing that I quickly want to point out is we talked about the different values here of the eigenvectors, and you can, and I related this to the fact that we have different variances, or that there's some something related to variance, and what we can see here is now the first eigenvector is much larger than the second one, and what we can actually see here is just this, that the variance along the first eigenvector is much, much larger than the variance along the second eigenvector, and this is actually, you know, signified in this, in these eigenvalues. So, so what we're basically saying is the first eigenvector, because it has a much larger. Value is much more significant than the second eigenvector, so this is one of the interesting things. Then Nikolai asked, what would be the confidence for the two components in this example? How is it measured? Well, you, you know, we, we don't really need a confidence interval for this, because this is not in that sense statistical operation. This is basically saying, okay, we have a values, we calculate a covariance matrix, and this is what it is now.

Speaker 1  55:40  
If you want to be much more particular, you could say, well, the covariance matrix itself can be a little bit misleading or unstable, and we could say, well, we could apply certain transformations of the covariance matrix, such as shrinkage, and so on, and then we can actually maybe get a better estimation of the covariance than we would get with the covariance matrix that we calculated here, so for example in finance you have something like, you know, you can measure the covariance with different techniques that are a little bit more stable, but these are very specific things that I don't want to go too much into detail here, but you know, just a normal covariance is a pretty straightforward mathematical operation, and that you know there's not really a confidence attached to that, because it's just a very, a very strictly defined mathematical operation, so there isn't really anything you, you generally would do for confidence. So I just want to have here an image of principal components in d space, so so you know, this is what I said before, when we, when we have in d space, you know, we've got like an axis in one direction, and then the second principal component sort of just rotates around and tries to find the highest variance in the next orthogonal direction, and then the third principle component again is orthogonal to the two others, and so once we have two, then the third component is usually, or the last component is usually fixed in a specific direction, while the other two are in some sense flexible, they can rotate around, but the third one then obviously has to be a certain direction, but this is what it looks like in d, so you can still visualize that, but then anything higher dimensional is very, very difficult to visualize, so I just quickly want to point out an interesting fact, and this, this is where people who do statistical arbitrage, and this is this is what we come to later, where they struggle, because there is, in fact, a difference between principal component analysis and ordinarily square, so, so, so linear regression, and when you actually look at linear regression, you can see that it's calculated as the distance between a point and the fitting curve, and the distance is measured along the y axis is parallel to the y axis, and then the distance between these points parallel to the y axis is minimized, and then we get our linear regression here, and interestingly, for principal component analysis, is actually the points are found orthogonal to the best fit, so this is how we calculate principal component analysis. Now, an interesting fact with linear regression is that it's actually not strictly invertible, so I, I show you this just on our example here with the, with the polyfid, you can see here I've done a linear, so this is just a linear fit, so it's non poly fit, and what we do is we look at the returns regressed of spy request against q q, so it fits one dimension or if it's a first degree polynomial, which is basically just a linear regression, and then what we do is we just swap it around and we fit the NASDAQ against the SPY, and so what we would expect is that the slope of the linear fit of the first of the. Second one should be the inverse of the slope of the first one, right? So you know when we have a slope for the first one, and then we just swap the x and y axis, we should get the inverse, but when you do this, you can actually, you actually see that they are not the same, they're actually quite different. The first one is 1.41 the other one's 1.32 so this is just an artifact of linear regression. It's actually not strictly invertible, and this is something that sometimes actually creates a lot of problems in statistical arbitrage. I show you later why. Now, what's really nice is in PCA, if you do the linear regression in PCA, you will actually find that the first eigenvector is always the same, so no matter how you, how you place your, your stocks, or you know, your, your components that go into it, it's always going to be the same value or the same slope, so this is really a good one.

Speaker 1  1:01:13  
So, so Shreyas asked logically, why to combine PCA OLS? I'm not sure what you mean with that, you're not actually combining it. What I wanted to show you is the difference between principal component analysis and ordinarily squared or linear regression. Archie asked, can you explain the OLS part again? Okay, so Archer, you, you, you obviously know about, or I hope you know about linear regression, and when you fit like a number of points, as we do here, you get a fitting curve, and so the fitting curve has a certain slope, right, and the slope is basically it's y divided by x, you know. So we've got y, and hey, for those of you who are totally familiar with this, I apologize, or not apologize, but some people are not always super familiar with this, so I like to explain it, that everyone understands it. So, you know, in order to calculate the slope, you got y over x, you get a slope, and this is basically your fitting curve, and then you end up y equals mx, or m is your slope, mx, and then you've got like usually something plus a sort of intercept plus t, also, and the intercept is basically where this line goes through the zero goes through the y axis, right? So, so this M is basically our slope here, right, and so what we can do is we can actually invert that, and we could say x, and I'm just skipping the t here, we could say x would then be one over m, and I'm actually drawing all this stuff in my mouse pad, so it's a little bit rough. I'm sorry about that. One over m times y, so this is just the inversion of so if we swap the y and the and the x axis around, right, we would expect that we get x equals one over m times y, but what we can see here is, if we do this, this m, you know, is not, or this inverse m is not the same as this when we do the linear regression, so they're not these two are not equivalent for ordinary least squares, so they're not the same, and you can see this here when you just do this fits, and let me just get rid of that quite a bit of drawing here, so, so when you do these, you can actually see that these two slopes are quite different, so that's just what I wanted to point out, and we can see later on where we do some of this, that this can actually be a huge problem for statistical arbitrage when you use this linear regression, because if you order your assets in your portfolio differently, you actually get completely different outcomes, and this is not necessarily what you want. Okay, so now let's now that we've done this PCA, let's just come to a practical example, and the example I want to show you is indeed. A fairly practical, so this is something that people use quite a bit, and so just, just as I show you, I just want you to keep an open mind on it, and get a, and really see if you can understand the idea behind it, because when you look in a lot of hedge funds and so on, this is actually something people really use, and so what I basically try to do is I've tried to find structure in the data that I have, so I've got, say, price or return data, I want to find some structure in the starter, and I want to find some, you know, things where I can extract certain properties from my underlying instruments that are perhaps similar, you know, they give a similar values, and why would I do this? I would do this so I can construct interesting portfolios that I can trade, and you know, when you work, say, in a hedge fund or in a CTA, this is often something you're looking at. You want to build portfolios, and these portfolios are traded and hopefully these portfolios, for example, have low correlation to other portfolios, because as you probably know, there is the golden rule of active portfolio management.

Speaker 1  1:06:37  
I hope most of you will have heard of it, so it's basically the information coefficient equals the information ratio times the square root of breath, so breath is usually the number of your of your assets that you're trading, the number of your strategies, or even the number of your time steps that you're trading the information ratio is effectively the intelligence of the, oh, sorry, it's the other way around. Information ratio is the info. This is IC information coefficient. So, information coefficient is the amount of intelligence of the trader or the amount of insight and the information ratio is effectively the Sharpe ratio of your strategy. So you want to have a high Sharpe ratio strategy, you can either be very intelligent or you just increase the breadth of your system, and breath means that you have large numbers of uncorrelated strategies, assets, and so on. So, building portfolios, and specifically uncorrelated portfolios, is a really, really interesting part of what you would do as a portfolio manager or algorithmic trader. So, what we can do is, we can basically build like a little PCA function here, and then run this PCA over these different instruments, and you can see here I've got a bunch of stocks that I use, and then here, does anyone know what these two are? I'm sure some of you who are from the trading world would definitely know they're pretty obvious ones. This one here in particular, but if you know this one, you most likely know this one. Maybe anyone can tell me. Yeah, CL is screwed. It's great. Shares, thank you. And what's RV? Anyone? RV is Arbor gasoline, so it's gasoline, our Bob gasoline, that's they're both futures contracts, that's why they get this equal to F. In our case, now we just trade them outright as just products, we don't really care about the futures part. I'm actually coming from the futures world, I'm trading a lot of futures at the moment, so I can tell you a lot about it, but unfortunately we haven't got the time to do this. Ah, thanks, Ajit. Exactly, CLS crude oil, we haven't got the time to do this today, but yeah, so we're trading futures, but then we also got some stocks, we've got Google, Amazon, Netflix, tech stocks, and then we got Bank of America, JP Morgan, and Wells Fargo, they're basically banking stocks here, so there's a good reason why I picked those. Now, if we basically take them and we do a PCA on it. There's a few interesting things that we can get, and so before I show you the actual application, one of the things that we get is something called explain variance. So what we're doing here is we're taking. Eigenvalues, and then we normalize them, so effectively, when you take all the eigenvalues, so you know, we, we just usually, they're denoted in physics, often denoted lambda, so we get lambda one plus lambda two, and so on, so, so, what we could do here is we take all the lambdas, and then what we do is we divide them by the sum of the of all the lambdas, like this lambda, I we actually we actually get the, you know, we get these, these different lambdas, and they sum up to one, and so what we can then do is we sort them by their size, and then when we do that, we get this interesting curve here, and that's called the explained variance, and so what this tells us is how many eigenvalues do you need to explain x percent of the variance in your data set, so when you, for example, look at what we've done previously, or so I've just gonna get rid of this, then you could, you could clearly see, so when we just use the spy in the QQ, you could clearly see that that pretty much one eigenvalue is enough to explain a large part of this data set, right, and this is just like linear regression. We just have like one vector in space that explains a lot of the data sets, is it like, oh, okay, this is what this is. Now, in this case, you can see that pretty much three eigenvalues are enough to play to explain about 90 or three components, three principal components.

Speaker 1  1:12:06  
So this is the first one, this is the second one, is the third one, are enough to already explain 90% of our data set, and that's really interesting, because that can also give us some idea about diversification in our data set. How diverse is it? And there is not a coincidence that you know with the three that explain a large part of our data set, because we really, when you look at it, we have three different asset classes, we've got, we've got these tech stocks, we've got the banks, and then we've got these futures, and so they are the three big ones. So the first one is 50% most likely that's the fact that we have stocks, then it's the difference between stocks and futures, and then it's also the difference between tech stocks and banking stocks, so there are actually really good sometimes reasons for, for, for, you know, what these variances actually explain, and then, of course, we've got these other small factors, and when we have, when we look at all the underlying eigenvectors, then eventually they will explain 100% of our, of our data set. So these three are the big ones, and and then these ones are obviously the small ones that are not so impactful, so that's what's called explained variance, and oh yes, what's so interesting about this is, for example, let's just assume we would see a curve like this, so what would that actually tell us if we, if we see, so, so it's not very well drawn, but if we see a curve that basically goes very close to one straight away, and then just goes more or less flat, any idea? So, you know, shares us how to apply explained variance in trading, exactly. That's what I'm coming to. So, let's say we've got a curve like this, right? So we see, we see like we apply, we apply like we've got our portfolio, we apply this, and our explained variance is like this, or maybe another portfolio we see in our explained variance is like this. What can we deduce from that? Okay, so Nicola said pretty much everything is explained by one single, by one single component. End, that's correct. And what does that tell us? When everything is explained by one single component, I'm sure, Nicola, you would, you would be easily able to tell me this. So, if we have something that is explained by one single component, more or less, or by very few components, it means our portfolio is not very diversified, so it's lacking diversification, because one component can actually explain a lot of things. Okay, so there's very little diversification in this, and sometimes that's good, sometimes that's bad. But then, if we have, on the other hand, something that looks like this, it says, like more or less a straight line. Then that means that you need a lot of components, basically all of the components to explain the variance in the data set, and so if we see a line that is actually much more straight, that can tell us we have a very good diversification and in our data set, and then if we come back to what I mentioned earlier, when I said, you know, the gold rule of all the fundamental rule of asset management, where we have IC times the square root of breadth, br that means that this portfolio here, which has a straight line, has a lot more breadth than this portfolio, so if you trade this, these two portfolios, you have a much higher probability of this being higher Sharpe ratio, because we have a much, much more diversification in that portfolio. Obviously, this needs to be there as well. So, so this is not enough, but let's say this, the information coefficient of both of these is the same. Then this will be a much higher Sharpe ratio in your portfolio, and then this one. Okay, let me just get rid of this. So Ha Manshu said the concept resembles the Pareto principle, as it focuses on identifying the components that explain the majority of the variants. Yeah, interesting thought. Actually, I haven't really thought about this, He Mansu, so I. but you gave me definitely a bit to think about, so I will look into this. It's quite possible that there are some similarities with the Pareto principle.

Speaker 1  1:17:31  
So this in itself is actually phenomenally useful, because some of you might heard that people say when, when we get to a market correction, all the order, the correlations between the different assets in the correction is going to one, or is getting close to one, and so what people have done previously is they actually looked at, let's say, when this curve starts to become a lot more like this, and suddenly it's like going like this. This can often be a slightly leading indicator that gives you some indication that a market crash is imminent. So there are these instances, for example, where this can be used to predict market crashes. Doesn't work everywhere, but it's definitely something that's interesting. But, of course, also a measure for portfolio diversification is incredibly powerful, because you know, if you want to trade and you want robust trading strategies, you really want to make sure that they are generally, you know, as diversified as possible. So this is the first application that you know that we can use for trading in a very, very good way. Now the next one I want to show you is also extremely interesting, and basically we can use PCA to find hidden factors or some clustering in the data. So what we do is we're actually plotting the first print two principal components against each other, so, so the returns, or you know, we apply the principal components to the returns, and we plot them against each other. So, I have got the code written here. I mean, it's pretty straightforward. I don't want to go too deep into this, but what I've done is I've actually call it the different asset classes, so you know the first one is the energy futures are red, then blue is our technology here, and then green is our banks, okay, so. So when I do this, there's something really interesting happening. We can actually see this interesting clustering behavior. So, for example, you can see that the energy stocks are extremely closely related. Then this is our technology. Now, hold on, let me just quickly go back. Green is our banking, yeah. So this is our banking, and blue is the technology, and what we can see here is already that they are appearing in clusters, you know, the, you know, it's, it's pretty obvious. And now, why is this interesting? Because let's say we have a large universe of, you know, 5000 US stocks, for example. So, there's quite a lot, and we want to find some stocks that are similar, for example, you know, if we want to use a build a portfolio for which is the topic of our talk here as well, the second topic statistical arbitrage, then we want to find what's interesting, and so what we can do is, for example, we can use this clustering, and in this case it's in two dimensions with the first and second component, but we could also expand this to say three dimensions, where we have a z axis, and then we have like three dimensional clusters, for example, or we could even expand it to larger dimensions. Then what we can say is, well, actually all those, all those stocks that lie in one cluster, they probably have very similar properties, and so they may be interesting to trade together in a portfolio, and again, you know, I talked about this previously, that we can use principal component analysis to extract structure in data sets, and this is one of these examples where we can actually extract and visualize the structure in a data set, and we can see that that it actually is able to give us, or to distinguish between the different large asset class groups, just by plotting the two principal components, or the values of the two principal components, against each other. Now, there's many, many other ways you can do this, and there's too many that for me to even talk about, but this is such a simple way of actually creating a clustering algorithm, and it's actually incredibly powerful, so, so that's the first two applications for PCA.

Speaker 1  1:22:50  
Now, what I want to do next is actually move towards statistical arbitrage and talk a little bit about this, and then what we do is we bring the two together and basically combine principal component analysis and statistical arbitrage, and so this is quite interesting, because it kind of converges to all the things we've actually done previously in this little course here, so before we do this, what - what I want to do is actually have a little break, because obviously I talked a lot and there's a lot for you to take in, so it's nice to have a little bit of a pause in this. Now, I suggest we have a 15 minute break, so on my clock at the moment it's 924 925 so in 15 minutes, so this would be 10 minutes or 20 minutes to the hour, or if you're in India, I think it's 20 minutes past the hour, but if you're not sure, just look at the clock and say, what's the next 15 minutes? So, thanks very much for listening in so far. I see you back in 15 minutes. Enjoy the break, and we will continue shortly. Bye. send me a message in the question answers path. Hello everyone, welcome back to PCA and Statistical Arbitrage. If you can hear me, please Thanks, Shreyas. Appreciate it. Thanks, Anusha. Excellent. Thanks, Subin. Fantastic. So, welcome back. I hope you had a nice little break and could relax your brain a little bit. If you have any more questions to what we've discussed before, you know, feel free to ask them. I know it's maybe at first a little bit abstract, and often it helps when you actually start working with this, and you actually start to see the, you know, the applications a bit, and that makes it a lot easier. Now, what I can give you is really an inspiration to basically go out and explore it a bit more for your own benefit, and that can often be the best way to learn it, because just learning things in an abstract way it might help you from an academic perspective, but well, specifically trading is extremely applied, and there are not really any distinct rules as they are in physics and math, for example. So, there's no natural laws, you know, the laws of the market just change all the time, and I mean, I just looked, for example, at my own evolution of what I used to do and what I'm doing now, and you know things have changed quite a lot, and what worked, say, 1015 years ago doesn't necessarily work anymore today, and a lot of it actually doesn't work anymore. So it's really important to stay flexible, to stay dynamic, and to keep learning. This is actually one of my favorite things about this job, that it actually really makes me keep learning, because you know, as I said, the markets change all the time, and what was true a while ago is not necessarily true anymore, and so, you know, that aspect is extremely strong, so I can't, I can't. Sorry, sometimes I can't pronounce your names properly. Don't hold it against me, because there's so many people from all over the world, and if I don't do it correctly, I apologize. Please don't hold it against me, so Akank, why one tech stock is away from its cluster. All right, so you basically asked why one of those stocks is a bit away now. I guess you are most likely referring to this one here. Now that's not always necessarily clear, and so I can't really tell you the exact reason for this right now. There probably is a reason, but this would actually need a bit deeper investigation, so you could perhaps see, for example, that it might be a way in the two-dimensional case, but let's just say we take a three-dimensional case. You might see that maybe in the z axis the crude oil and arbor up gasoline are actually quite a long way away from each other, or something like this.

Speaker 1  1:43:19  
So it's sometimes not always, it's not always obvious what the reason is, but in many cases it's not even necessary, because maybe the goal might actually be that we just just build a portfolio with these things, and so we just pick some of them, and you know, one of the issues is, if we actually knew what it was exactly, we wouldn't need those tools, we could actually just go and say, well, we know what it is, and so we structure our portfolio from what we know, but in this case, we don't actually know, that's why we want to find out what the structure is, and our structure is now a data set in the first place, and therefore we're building these things, and then we're drawing our conclusion based on our numerical analysis, rather than, for example, say we do a fundamental analysis where we say, well, this is stock has this sector and this cash flow, or whatever it is, so in this case we're really working on purely mathematical in a mathematical technical domain. I hope that makes sense. Um, now what I'll do is I'll switch off my video again, just, just we can focus on what we're talking about here, so thanks for this. So, let's move on to statistical arbitrage, and you may have heard this before. The basis of statistical arbitrage is a statistical process called co-integration, and often what people do is they miss. They can co-integration for correlation, and probably the best way to understand it is this paper here called the Drunk and Her Dog, and so I put a link of this paper here in this notebook, and so it's basically the idea that you have a drunk person walking through a park, and it basically does a, he, you know, he or she, whatever, I just say he does a random walk, you know, it's just like back and forth in the park, and then this person also has like a dog, and the dog does also a random walk, and the dog is totally random, but when you actually look at the dog's trajectory, what you will find is even though it's totally random, it's actually not a disco, or it's somewhat connected to the walk of the drunk person, you can see this here, it's just like looks random, but when you actually look at those two trajectories in combination, they are not so random anymore, and if they are not so random, this is actually exploitable. Now I use the example of crude oil and arbopp gasoline here, so if we look at those price curves on the first glance, they definitely look pretty random, but when we look at them in combination, we can clearly see, you know, they are like very aligned with each other. You can see this here, so they're very actually very close to each other, and so they are what we call co-integrated. Now, co-integration is not equal to correlation. So, correlation is, for example, if we have a return on one stock that goes up, and then another stock goes up, and then you know it goes another, and it goes up again, goes up again, and then maybe it goes down, and the other one goes down too, you know, at the same time. So that's correlation. It's actually the returns, and we sold this with the spy and the QQ Q. We saw this, this, this correlation of returns here. Now the interesting thing is that when we look at co integration, that when we are, when we have a co integrated time series, this is actually doesn't have to be necessarily correlated. So let me show you an example of a co integrated time series. Let's say we have a what we call a square wave in signal processing. We have a square wave like this, and then we have another, say, a sine wave like that. So, when we look at these two, there's not any correlation between them is pretty much zero, right? So there's nothing you know similar or correlated with them. However, they're actually moving very much that they're basically their movements are very much in line with each other.

Speaker 1  1:48:18  
So what we can do is when we actually look at the difference between those two, what we see is in some cases they diverge, they get wider and then they get narrow again and then they diverge again and they get narrower, and so it's constantly like this sort of behavior that revolves around a certain mean, you know, the distance never really, you know, whenever the distance is kind of far, it comes back, and so this is also called mean reversion, right, and I'm sure most, a lot of you will have heard of this idea, so mean reversion doesn't hinge on correlation, but it actually hinges on co-integration, and so Subin asked, this is how MACD-like oscillators behave. Yeah, yeah, this is exactly right. So, so stuff like MACD is, is also in a way we call it stationary, so when you have a time series that has a stable mean and potentially a stable variance, so the mean stays basically more or less stable. We call that a stationary time series, and what is so interesting about stationary time series? Well, if we have a stable mean and we diverge from the mean to a certain amount, then we almost are guaranteed that this will come back to the mean, and so if it's in one direction it. Will go down if it's in the other direction. It will go up, and what is then another word for knowing this? It basically means it's highly predictable. Okay, so whilst maybe the underlying price movement is not predictable, the actual divergence between the two is highly predictable, and this predictability can be really nicely exploited for trading strategies, and this is what we look at, and this is actually called statistical arbitrage. Some of you might know, you know, like arbitrage is if there is a mispricing, let's say you have, I don't know, gold, the price of gold on the Comex, you know, in in in Chicago, and then you have the price of gold in, say, in London, I think it's the LBMA, right. And then there is a difference between the two, you know. Then, then you can basically buy here and sell here and just effectively bag a profit, and usually what you have to do is these price differences in many cases are not lasting for very long, so you have to be very fast. Usually this is the domain of very high frequency traders. So this is true arbitrage. This is statistical arbitrage, basically saying, oh, there's a price difference between those two time series. Let's just take an example. Let's say there's a price difference here and here, you know. And then this price difference then should actually converge again. And then here we basically have the same price again. We're coming together now. Anyone knows what happened here. Does anyone still remember this big drop? So, if you know, let me know in the questions box. Covid, yeah. Super been said Covid. Great negative crude oil. Yes, that's it. Raga vendor, thanks. So, what happened here is basically the price of crude went negative. That was a bit of a shock. Very interesting. And then, obviously, this this reverted back very quickly, and you can see this here. It sort of came back, but it was an interesting time when actually the price went negative, and there wasn't even a lot of, or there was exchanges that couldn't even deal with the negative prices, so that was quite an interesting moment. So the question now is, of course, what can we do with this? Odd Shreya said on April 20, 2020 WTI crude oil prices felt an unprecedented per barrel, the first negative price in history. This meant sellers were paying sure this is great. Thanks for this. That's a nice, nice that you mentioned that. I think it was. I remember I lived through this time that was very, very interesting. It was great when you were on the right side of it, not so great when you were on the wrong side of it, for sure. So, how can we exploit this now? It's actually pretty, pretty simple. Shreya said, did take this trade, I guess you meant, did you take this trade? Um, actually, I traded during this time quite a lot. This was probably one of my most profitable times ever, but yeah, that's a different story.

Speaker 1  1:53:57  
So, so, how can we trade this, and it's actually fairly straightforward, because what we really want to do is we want to trade difference between these two prices, and how do we do this? Is well, you know, it's in the simplest way we could, for example, trade CL, and if we want to trade the difference we trade cl minus rb and what does this mean in practice we just take a plus here right and so what we can say is well if we have a minus in front then we go short, and if we have a plus in front, we go long. Okay, so the difference trade is basically just the trade long short. Okay, now actually before. Go any any deeper into this, which is I just have to remind you of something. So, when I put on this two here, what I have also done is, and this is this is what you see in this box, I've actually subtracted the mean, so, so I demean those prices again, and then I divided it by the standard deviation. So this is, this is quite important, because if we don't do this, if we just take the prices as they are, what we find is they look actually quite different. One might look like this, and one you know might look like this, and they actually don't really look similar. So, what we need to do is, when we do this in general, is actually, and some of you, especially with other scientists, they probably can tell me what is called this operation here, when you subtract the mean, and then you divide it by the standard deviation. There is actually a word for it. Does anyone, anyone know what this is? Standard normalization. We shall think there's actually another one, sharp ratio. No, it's not quite sharp ratio, it's actually called the z score. So, what we want to do, just in order to align those two price series, we're gonna z score this, and that scoring basically means we subtract the mean and we divide by the standard deviation. It's actually a very, very straightforward standard operation that we can use, but it gives us this nice alignment here, because, because without it, we wouldn't really be able to do much. Now, if we do this, we actually subtracting the two. What we see is this here. This is actually the result of the subtraction, and that's really interesting, because when we look at that, we can see that, you know, the prices generally oscillate around some sort of, you know, like this. Actually, this is the zero line here, so there is some sort of mean. Let me redraw this just to be a bit closer to the zero line, so there is a there is actually a mean and then our price is oscillate around this and you can say well if the price is really well below the mean it most likely reverts back to the zero line and if it's well above the zero line it'll most likely revert back as well right so actually this becomes really quite predictable, and when it's predictable, it's most likely good for trading strategy. So shares asked for startup, we use co-integration and Z score, so shares for startup, you know, the set scoring is not necessarily always what you use. It really depends on the on the nature of your underlying data. In many cases, you should definitely set score it, but it's not always necessary, and it really depends what you do. However, use for startup, and this is really the important property of startup, is this long short, this long short thing, you know, where we had, like, say crude minus gasoline, or something like this, where you go long one asset and short the other. Now, what happens when you set score it? What you actually do is you, because you divide by the by the standard deviation.

Speaker 1  1:58:48  
So, what actually happens is you go, for example, crude oil, or in our case, at least our Bob, and then you divide it by the standard deviation here by sigma, you know, so actually your position sizes are not the same, so you can dismiss the mean here, because this is just sort of moving this up and down, you know, when you don't, when you don't subtract the mean, all that means is instead of at the zero line, you will actually be up here, or something like this, and then you will get this just a little bit offset, but what's what's really crucial is that we have this factor here, so we align this with the standard deviation, or sometimes it's actually, maybe you know, people write it, I mean, it's the same thing, but, but one over sigma times RB, or something like this, and then effectively the sigma, then, is your position size, you know, so if you have a position size here of one, then your positions. Is here is one over sigma, right? So here it would be one times cl minus one over sigma times rb. Okay, that's just the position sizing you apply, and then you can just basically run your long short trading strategy between the two assets, and you know that just happens, so, so when we do this, you know, we, you know, we want to make sure that that this is actually really a strategy that works, and so you know we need to maybe, or we could do a few more statistical tests to establish that it's working, and one of these statistical tests that I do use quite a bit is called the Engel Granger causality, and so a lot of what happens here actually has to do with the idea of causality, and, and this is an interesting concept, and again, it's not exactly philosophical, but for example, when we talk about the drunk and the dog, what we assume is we've got like a person randomly walking through the park, and then we've got like this dog. Oh my goodness, I'm trying to draw this here. Maybe I just draw a dog while four legs and a tail, and so this dog is just just running around the drunk person, and the drunk person has some weird trajectory, and so this is just just one way and basically what it means is the drunk person is sort of the leader and then the dog just just oscillates around the drunk person but this is not the only scenario I mean imagine you had a drunk person, and so I'm just, just make this a little bit simpler. So here we've got our drunk person, and let's just say the drunk person had like a really big dog. I just give it two legs and a tail and some ears, of course, and so imagine the dog was on a leash, and so you can see when the dog runs around erratically, it will actually pull the drunk person rather than the other way around, assuming, says the dino, yes, yes, it's kind of like more like a dinosaur, but you can see that now the actual causality goes from the dog to the drunk rather than the other way around. Okay, and then of course there is another scenario where you know where you maybe have the same size, right? So I just draw a blob for the dog. Oh, that was a bit big. Let's make that a bit smaller. So, let's say that's the dog, that's the man. And so they're also connected by a leash, and then sometimes the dog pulls, and sometimes the drunk pulls. And so, there is basically a two-way causality between them. So, there is one more scenario that we could think of, and I wonder if any one of you can think of the, so we had three scenarios: one is when both pull, there's another scenario where the dog pulls, a third scenario where the drunk pulls. What's the fourth scenario that you could think of? Any, any idea what that could be. So, if you have any, I give you a few seconds to let me know. Leash breaks uncorrelated. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, okay. She is, I guess the leash breaks could be a scenario.

Speaker 1  2:04:00  
Yeah, Zubin, that's kind of what I wanted to refer to, is basically the uncorrelated case, and I guess what you meant was that the drunk and the dog are basically not belonging to each other at all, so you've got the drunk and there is a dog, and the dog is maybe owned by someone else, and so the drunk does this thing, you know, and the dog does like something totally different, right? So, important to know, though, this is not uncorrelated, it's actually not co-integrated. So, remember that, like, correlation and co-integration are different, but basically, you know, you've got this case where the drunk and the dog don't even belong to each other, and so, so there's nothing between them that's actually interesting. I actually have this already done here. Dog is not owned by the drunk, so there is actually a way of testing that and. So this is this is called the Engel Granger causality, so I've got a little bit of code written here where you basically do this causality test is called the Granger causality test in Python, it's in stats models, it's one of the standard tests where you can see whether the causality goes in one direction on the other and so this is a significant signified by x y here and then here it's actually y x so so it's one direction and then it's the reverse direction and when we do this interestingly we can actually see that it's much stronger in one direction than in the other. It's pretty clear here. So, so what you do is with the Granger causality, you actually look at it for different legs, so you know we look basically only at leg one at the moment, so we're basically saying, okay, when one moves, what does the other do? But you could also say, well, let's say crude oil moves, then what happens to gasoline the next day, or what happens to gasoline two days later, or three days later, and so on. That's what's called a leg, that's what we have here. These numbers are actually legs, so leg zero, leg one, and so on, so that different legs. So basically, it asking a movement in one asset causes the movement in another, and it's actually not - we call this causality, but it's actually called Granger causality, signif signifying that it's not true causality, it's just statistical causality, but it may not actually, you know, how you often hear correlation is not causation, so statistical causality is not necessarily true causality, but in finance we quite often can't really tell the difference anyway, so Shreya said crude versus you could use this NGC versus GL CL spread trading, so you say we want to use this in gold versus crude oil spread trading, and yes, you could, if it, if it works, if there is a causality, you could do it. Now, I actually haven't looked at gold versus crude oil, I'm not, not exactly sure, but what I did look at is gasoline versus crude oil, and so this is actually the back test that I've written here. So it's a pretty simple, straightforward back test, and it's the kind of back test I often use. It's quite easy and straightforwardly written, and what I often do is I try to really simplify my code and effectively leave out anything complex, at least in the first iteration. So, if I just.. so, you gotta understand, back testing doesn't mean that you perfectly replicate what would happen in a trading scenario, at least not at first. So, what you really want to do is, when you build a back test at first, you want to test a hypothesis, or you want to reject the null hypothesis that you can build a strategy, or that the strategy is not profitable. Let's put it that way. Okay, so you don't build a back test to say, "Oh, I want to build a profitable strategy, but when you build a back test, you could say, "Well, if the back test performs well, at least you can reject your null hypothesis that it's not profitable.

Speaker 1  2:08:53  
That doesn't mean it's profitable, but, but at least you could say, "Well, it's unlikely that it's not profitable, and this is really what a lot of back testing does, rather than trying to perfectly predict what a trading strategy does, it says, well, there could be something here, we just have to then do more tests to figure that out, and so you know the nature of the back test is really simple. We step through time, so we step through, like.. oops, let me do this again. So, we've got like our time steps here. You know, we step through all these time steps, and here we can.. whenever we are not in a position we actually construct a trading pair, so you can see here the position is actually the position size is the standard deviation of the of the pairs, right, so we got two standard deviations and then we subtract. The mean here and multiply this or divide this by the position sizes, so we're basically dividing this by the standard deviations, and then we take the difference between the two, and that basically gives us our spread, and so we only want to do this spread calculation, though. When we're not in a position, because as soon as we are in a position, then our position size is obviously fixed. So, so we get in a position, we buy something, or we sell it, or we short it, but I should say, and once, once we are in there, then the at least for this trade the position size is fixed, so we don't want to change it anymore, and so, so that's why we only do this when we're not in a position like I denote it here. Now, what we can then do is we can actually calculate the unrealized P and L of this, so this is usually done before we change the position sizes, because usually what happens is we get into the next day, and then once we enter the position in the previous day, which is what's happening down here, but then we step into the next day, and then we calculate the P and L on on the next day, still using the old position sizes, and so on. So that's why, that's why this is this is done above, you know. So we calculate, you know, we've got the realized and the unrealized P and L. So these are our entry conditions for long and short, so so this is this is the short entry, so if the spread is larger than a certain threshold, so let's say here we've got our spread again, ding ding ding, right, then we define a threshold, and so if the spread goes above the threshold, we enter a position in the hope that it will revert back to the mean here, and then we exit the position, and because the spread price drops, we're actually making money because we were short, and so this is actually really also important to note, and when we say short, we're actually meaning shorter spread, so long might be that we have crude oil minus gasoline, and our short, and this is basically meaning shorter spread, and not short is actually gasoline minus crude oil. So, in this case, we're basically long crude oil. In this case, we're short crude oil. In this case, we're short gasoline, and in this case, we're long gasoline. So, it's basically longer spread, shortest spread, and so, so that can be a little bit confusing when you're not used to it, but once you've done it a few times, it makes a lot of sense, and yeah, you can just, just pretty easily deduce that. So we're basically here when we say long and short impulse, we go long the spread, short the spread, and so this is our entry condition for the short. Then we've got the exit condition for the short. So, if our spread drops below the zero line, basically below the mean, then we exit.

Speaker 1  2:13:32  
Then what we do is we calculate our realized P and L, which is this one here, and so you can see this is entry minus spread, this is basically short because the entry is positive, the actual spread price is negative, and we also get the dates, so for the opposite, basically long entry condition, we're coming from below, so when our spread price is below this negative threshold, we enter long and then we exit once it goes above the zero line, and so this is our long condition. So there's a question in startup, how to code in a stop loss. Well, it's basically, if you say, well, you know, because, because you see here, when the spread is below the negative threshold, you could have a condition, for example, when you say, oh, if you know, and this, this is obviously for the long condition, but for the short condition, if the spread is like, you know, really, really, or you know, in this case, if okay, let me explain it. It's not so easy, so let's just say we've got our spread here, and then we go below a threshold, and we come back and. And this is our threshold, here we enter here, and then we hope it reverts, right, but then if you, if you say, well, if it keeps going, let's just say this spread keeps going, you're actually losing money as it keeps going, right, like you keep losing money, and then you could say, well, here we have a stop loss, and so instead of, you know, we enter here, and then you say, well, if the spread keeps going too far, we introduce a stop loss, and we actually exit here rather than here, and then obviously, if we're long, we exit here at a loss, right? This is our stop loss, and so, so it's actually fairly straightforward just to have another condition here. For example, you could say, or you know, our entry.. sorry, this is.. let me just get rid of all of this, because otherwise it gets confusing. So, we have an exit condition. If the spread is larger than zero, we exit, or we could say something like, or spread is less than minus, let's say three times the threshold, then we stop out, so, so we basically would add this condition here, and then you know we've got a long stop loss, so it's pretty, you know, it's pretty straightforward. You just add another, another condition here, so when we do this, and we run it. We can actually see, hey, this doesn't, doesn't look too bad, you know. Most of our trades are actually profitable, this basically by the very nature of it, because we don't actually have a condition in here like a stop loss, where we can get stopped out. Now, if you, if you had a stop loss condition in here, where you say, oh, we stop. Let's say at three times the threshold. It's easy to see that the stop loss condition would at least be triggered here, probably here, and most likely here as well. So, when you're, you know, when you actually look at this P and L curve, it looks like really beautiful and smooth, but I can guarantee when you're in a drawdown like this, it actually gets pretty scary, because you really don't know whether this will actually revert back or not, like you know, sometimes there may be reasons why crude and gasoline might diverge a lot more than one would expect, and then boom, you, you know, you have this, this issue here, and what you also notice is quite interesting when you have these pairs trading statistical avatar strategies. As soon as you get into a trade, most likely you actually get into a drawdown, and you know the strategy, as you can see here, often is in a drawdown most of the time, you know, it's like this, it's like in a drawdown here. Why is that?

Speaker 1  2:18:11  
Well, it's pretty straightforward, you know, when you have your, your mean reverting curve here, and you draw somewhere a threshold like this, then just because you define a threshold here, your spread doesn't just stop here and then reverts, you know, it goes wherever it wants to go before it reverts, and this is always true, more or less, you know, as soon as it hits the threshold, it keeps going until it reverts, and this is what you see here. You know, it's hits a threshold, but it generally keeps going. I mean, you've got sometimes these times where this is not like it actually reverts at the right moment. You can see this here, but, but there's many, many cases where you know your spread really doesn't care about where you set your personal threshold in your trading strategy, so these strategies will be quite often in a, in a drawdown, and, and that's, you know, that's just the nature of the strategies. So, when you trade this, usually you need quite strong nerves to sustain this, so there is a question here. What should be the drawdown limit for startup strategies? Well, there isn't really, or there is no, there is no way to set a draw down limit, or, and, and to be honest, even a stop loss can be very difficult, so what professional people do in most cases is they actually trade like 1020, or even 100 of these in parallel, and so what happens then is even if one, some of them are in a deep drawdown, others will make money, and so on, so that will cancel. Each other out, and then you know, we get the fundamental law of asset management again, I see, times the square root of breadth, so if you take 100 of these, then even the larger drawdown will not really be such a big deal, and so you know, you know, you can somehow deal with it, okay? And David asks, when does PCA come into place regarding these pair straits? Alrighty, yeah. Well, well, it's coming. Just give me a little bit. So it's actually coming next, and I've already got it here, index arbitrage, so this is where PCA comes in. Now I just want to, I just want to point out one more thing, so you know, recruit oil and arboretally. It was actually quite interesting to find the position size, which was just simply one over sigma. It's also called the hedge ratio, but that's not always the case. Sometimes, let's just say you want to trade Coca Cola versus, I don't know, Pepsi. So often what you do is you actually, you actually say, you know, Coke versus Pepsi, and what you do is you look at the prices of these, and then you do a linear regression, and then the slope of this will be your hedge ratio. Let's call this M. So, rather than having just one over sigma, you actually got as a hedge ratio this this M, which basically this linear regression basically gives you the price relationship between Pepsi and Coca Cola. In this case, it's very straightforward with crude oil and gasoline, but sometimes you do it like this, and we will actually see this in the next example. So now the interesting thing is I talked about linear regression, and I said how this is not reversible. So, in many cases, rather than using linear regression, it's actually better to use PCA, but, but we'll, we'll come to that in a second.

Speaker 1  2:22:16  
So, let's speak about an example, which is a little bit more along the lines of what an institution would do, so if you are a fund manager or you're an aspiring fund manager, most likely what's going to happen is you're going to have this problem that you might, you know, your, your, your, you actually have, say, $100 million or $500 million and you need to trade them, and so most likely, if you treat our gasoline versus crude oil, that's not going to, it's not going to do much, because if you trade all your $500 million with this, you move the market by so much that this strategy will just completely disintegrate, so you won't be able to actually do this from a from a size perspective, and so you need to, if you're, you know, into statistical arbitrage, you need to do something else, and so one of the really cool things you can do is index arbitrage, and so what is it? Well, basically, let's take the S and p5 100, it's got 500 components, and what I've done here is, and this is already, this list is already quite old, this is from a few years ago, and I took the top, like 43 in this case, top 43 stocks from the S and p5 100, and I build a portfolio out of them. And okay, sure. Let's just ask another question, but give me a moment, I'll ask it. I answer it in a bit. So I basically just took this from this website here, just these top components, and then what I did is I just have a little string manipulation here, and I extract the tickers from these, so basically go extract the stock tickers, and once I extracted the stock tickers, I then put it into Y finance here, so I do Y after download tickers, and then I basically download me the tickers, and actually it doesn't do all the 43 some of these tickers may not be correct, but it does at least 33 out of the 43 so this is just a very crude way of building a portfolio, but, but actually it's not, you know, it's not like so bad, so you know I can use it for this case, and so what I can then do is I just plot the P and L order to the. P and l curves of those we can see, you know, the local in a sense positive, which is not a surprise, because we basically picked, you know, the top performing stocks are the S and p5 100, so we would expect to see like a positive thing here now, people sometimes do this. They basically say, "Oh, okay, we just picked the S and p5 100 or some of the top performers, and we build a trading strategy around it, and then they run a back test, and lo and behold, the back test shows like really, really good results. Now, now, this is basically, and some of you already might know what the problem is. This is what's called survivorship bias. So, when you take the current components of the S and p5 100, you already know that they have been performing really well. That's why they got into this index, and so they're like the real survivors. They're like the really good ones. And so, if you then take them and run a back test, you actually have what's called a survivorship bias, so the back test will most likely perform a lot better than you would expect. Why? Because back in the days when wherever your back test was, you couldn't have known that the stocks you pick would actually get into the top spots of the S and p5 100, so you have to, you know, you have to be very, very conscious of that.

Speaker 1  2:26:32  
Now, in our case, what I've actually done is I have built this quite a few years ago, when I originally started the course, and so you can see here, this is just the prices of the SMP, you know, sorry, the prices of the components of the stock, and now what we can do is we can actually build a portfolio from these 33 stocks, and then we can create a pair straight against the S and p5 100, and so this is really interesting, because what actually happens is first of all the S and p5 100 is one of the most heavily traded instruments in the world, and also the top components in the S and p5 100 are extremely liquid, and what that means is we can actually push a lot of capital into a strategy like this without substantially moving the market. Now Sharon asked, How would you avoid survivorship bias when you're back testing. Well, there's several ways. If you want to use some index components, what you should do is you can basically go to this website and you can get the historical components of the S and p5 100 index. You can, I think, get them from Bloomberg or something, as well, so you go back, get the historical components of the S and p5 100, and then you basically, you know, you, you run your back test using the historical SMP 500 components, and so you know that would do it now, so what I mentioned is you basically build a portfolio from this, and then what you can do is you can actually just do a statistical arbitrage against the S and p5 100, because they would be quite similar, so you would expect them to be somewhat mean rewarding. Right now, how do you build a portfolio with this? This is where the PCA comes back in, which was the one of your previous questions. So, what we do here is we're actually running a principal component analysis. You can see this here is pretty.. oops, you know it's this line here, and then we create what's called an eigen portfolio, so we use the first eigen vector, so this is this one here, eigen vector admitted on the position zero, and so this vector, or the values of this vector, they serve us as our weights of our portfolio. Okay, so this is this is really interesting, and then we basically create a portfolio out of this, which I call the index. So this is basically, you know, we've got the S and p5 100 index, and then we've got our own index that we use the first principle, or that we create from the first principle component. This is, by the way, a very standard way of doing it, so it's a, you know, you know, it's very interesting and standard way. It's also sometimes called the correlation weighted portfolio, so it's actually trying to diversify this portfolio by effectively down weighting the stocks that are the most highly correlated, and so this is what we end up with. This is actually the portfolio weights. Now you will notice that here this doesn't actually add up to one. So, what you would have to do is to get this to one, you would have to basically sum up all these and then divide it by the sum of all of those eigenvalues. Sorry. sorry, eigenvector components, so this is basically the values in your first principle component, or in your first eigenvector, and that's what we create the portfolio from, right, and you can again, you can see this here. We basically multiply our returns with this eigenvector. Okay, now that we have our portfolio, we can then.. oops, sorry, there was a few things that I didn't expect.

Speaker 1  2:31:19  
We can then actually do a linear regression between our index and the spy itself, and so you know, I talked to you about this before, that if we want to look at the sizing of those two, and I think this was also one of the questions Shreya said that how do we, how do we actually size our portfolio and the other things, and so this is one thing we can do here, we can actually do a linear regression between our portfolio value and the S and p5 100, you can actually see here it goes negative, and the reason for this is that sometimes when we use the eigen values, they actually give us, oh, sorry, the eigen vectors, they actually sometimes give us a value in the positive direction and sometimes in the negative direction, so one thing you can do is you can actually then just just flip the sign, and then you basically get to the correct answer for this, but what you can see here is this 0.1 and this is our hedge ratio, this is what we call HR, so basically one component is 10 times larger than the other component, basically because of, you know, the price differences between the two components. So Robert asked too many requests, you have exceeded a secondary rate limit. Oh, oh, okay. Sorry, I'm not sure what this was. Raise is something strange here happening. Okay, so, so this is basically what we do, is we calculate the hedge ratio based on this correlation between the two, and once we've done, once we've done this, you can see this is actually, then this is actually the the equation for the spread, so what we do is we have our eigen portfolio, we multiply this by the hedge ratio, we add the intercept of our linear regression, and then we subtract our index. So this is basically one component, this is the other component, right. So, in other words, what we're saying here is basically the spy price equals our hedge ratio, which is basically m1 M m1 sorry, M zero times our portfolio, we call this I minus the intercept, which we could call T, or something. Okay, so this is effectively the same thing now. If we, if we rearrange this equation, we're basically move this over here. Oh, sorry, this is plus, not minus. And then we go basically zero equals zero. This hedge ratio plus t and then minus t spy, so this is just a rearranged equation, and so basically the zero tells us that the mean should now be at zero. Okay, and so what you can see here is basically the resulting, the resulting spread P and L, or the spread curve of this, and you can also see that you know the spread curve, at least up to a point, is actually fairly nicely mean reverting, but you can then see recently it did actually nosedive quite a bit. Now this is quite interesting, so this this nose dive is basically, yeah, this is something I'm going to explain a little bit later, and the implications of this, because it's quite interesting, actually, from a training perspective. So, there is something called a co-integration test, you can do this, basically testing whether to whether a curve has this sort of mean reverting property, and instead of model there is something called co int, which is actually the so-called Granger co-integration test and what you, what you see there is, you, you know, you get a value here, which is a t statistic, and you compare this with this sort of what's critical values, and usually what you expect, or what you hope is that it should, this t statistic should be below some of these critical values, in our case it's really not now some in some books, like, like for example, Ernie Chan's books, there is quite a bit of emphasis on this co-integration test. I'm very skeptical about this. What I found is that, and this is quite years of research that co-integration tests are generally not predictive for future co-integration at all. So, I'm not a big fan of it. I put it here just for you, if you want to check it out.

Speaker 1  2:37:34  
In my opinion, it's much, much more important if we do these tests based on some economic reasoning, and then obviously looking at the historical behavior of this as well, but if we rely purely on statistical tests for co-integration, that's actually very, very dangerous, and I would not recommend it. I've never seen any good results with it. Now, once we've done this, we can actually build our spread, and so this is this is read the spread. This is already what I explained. This is our eigen portfolio with the hedge ratio here, M zero, and then here we've got our index, this is like the S and p5 100 or something, right? So it's basically what we call index arbitrage, or statistical index arbitrage. Now, once we build a spread, we can actually just apply this very much the same way in a pair straight. So, so I've done this here, so this this pairs trading back test is pretty much the same as above, so, so there's not much difference. There's a few little differences in that when we calculate the hedge ratio, instead of using a one over sigma, we actually use this linear regression. Now I actually did this. This is one thing that you should also notice when we did this linear regression here, and you can see this here is I used numpy polyfid. It's linear regression, right? And what that means is, and this is really what I explained earlier, if we actually had our components the other way around, then our hedge ratio would be different, and the results of our statistical arbitrage would also be most likely very different from here. Now, the better way to do this is, instead of using polyfid, you could use PCA just for this hedge ratio as well. So we use PCA for the position sizing of our eigen portfolio, but we could also use PCA for calculating this line. Now, I haven't done this here, and this could be your homework, so actually, instead of using Poly Fit or another OLS from Sci Pi, or something, maybe try PCA to calculate the slope here, and that would be, I think, a very interesting exercise in actually applying PCA, so if you want to do some homework, then do this and see what you get as a result. Okay, so now here, as I said, I run the back test, and it looks very much the same as before, and when I run the back test, this is in fact what I get, so before I continue, what I actually want to do is I want to rerun this whole notebook, and I do this just buy, oops, just by run all, is it running? Oh, yeah. Okay, it's running. So, so this is the result, and this is interesting. Oops, now it's disappeared. All right, so we have to wait a little bit. Okay, I can, in the meantime, actually draw this or answer a question that's even better. So, my knock asks, for understanding co-integration is a good idea to take whole or long back history data or short-term co integration, like 90 or 120 days. It's a good question, my knock. Well, I would say that it really depends on what you're doing, you know. Sometimes people that do really high frequency, they actually look at co-integration, even in the range of just a day or two, and that's enough. And then there's also co-integration. Actually, something one of my colleagues is doing right now, and he looks at literally 20 years of history. So it really depends on what you want to do now. One thing I can say is that if you, if you want to do this, don't just use the co-integration test, that's just simply not adequate for going predicting it going forward, but it's sometimes better just to use really good economic reasoning, you actually better with pairs trading than just using a cointegration test, all right. So, let's have a look at this P and L curve. The first thing we notice is, okay, again, typical pairs trading, really big draw downs, and quite a lot of them here as well. But then nice recovery.

Speaker 1  2:42:57  
Now, what you also see is this is approximately when I started running this course, and you can see that after I started running it, it was still performing well for maybe about a year, and then it just fell off the cliff, right? And so, why is that? Well, I haven't really updated my, sorry about that. I haven't really updated my strategy parameters, and with strategies like this, you don't want to update your strategy parameters all the time, but it's definitely useful to keep updating them, and you know, do something, you know, like, like, like, basically adjust them to new market conditions. If you don't do that too often, you know, and you just hope for the best, and then clearly it's not always gonna turn out very well. And you can see this here, we all know that, that after about 2023 market conditions have really changed, because the interest rates started rising, the market really underwent a fundamental shift. So, really, we should account for this, and I mean, you know, the strategy did perform all right out of sample for a while, which is basically kind of what we see, and then once you know, maybe once a year at least, you should update the parameters, and then see whether you know it's still doing okay, so but there's there's also another interesting aspect here that I just want to discuss with you, because what often happens is in trading, and I says you don't necessarily always stick to the rules. I mean, often with trading, you know, you've got the commonly accepted gospel, where you go, okay, this is, you know. This is a mean reverting strategy, and this is how it should go, but how about you make a change in your strategy? So, for example, one thing you can do is, whenever you have a long entry, you know, you actually just make the entry short entry, wherever you have a short entry, you make it a long entry. So, instead, so basically what you're doing is you're turning the strategy on its head and effectively making it, I guess I would say a trend or a momentum strategy rather than a mean reverting strategy, and you could say, well, what's the rationale behind that? I could say, well, maybe there isn't a rationale, but the question is, does it work, and how well does it work? So, if we run this well, you can actually see this is really quite consistent now, obviously this is, you know, not not necessarily a very great strategy to trade, because when you turn this onto its head, you know, it just basically gets in and then gets out very quickly, so it's not really a tradable strategy, but what I want to show here is that you know quite often when you design strategies, so we just, we just reverse this again, because I don't want to keep this, but when you design strategies, in many cases you have to be a little bit inventive and think out of the box, I mean, with this just, just reverting the polarity of the entries and exits, you really have to sit down and think, what does this actually mean in real terms, and so you got to be very careful when you design a strategy like this, whether it actually makes sense to do this or not, but sometimes it does, and it's worth, you know, considering sometimes those possibilities, and what I found is more often than not, if I start really thinking out of the box and I build these things, then I actually come up with nice, profitable strategies, and so, you know, is a lot to take in here, but I think you know it's very practical, and you know what you saw here really is quite deep from my own personal research. So, this is the stuff that I would do when I run my research. Now, this really concludes the course for today. If you have any questions, and it looks like there's quite a few, then we still got plenty of time to answer them. So that's what we're going to do now. Is I can already see two questions here, I will answer them, and if you have some more, I will do that as well.

Speaker 1  2:47:57  
If you have something that is a little bit unrelated, there will still be a little bit of time, if there's anything you want to know, or anything you're interested in. Potentially, I could answer that as well. All right, so Nicolai asked, do you have a numerical criterion to decide if a startup pair is broken, or is the economic rationale more relevant to decide this, that's a very good question, Nikolai. I like your questions. So it's actually really, really difficult to find a numerical criterion to say a startup strategy is broken. It's actually a lot harder than it sounds, and the way people get around this is what I said earlier, they literally, instead of focusing on one pair, they'll literally trade 10s or even hundreds of pairs. I mean, I've seen those strategies that trade literally hundreds of those pairs in parallel, and you go, well, actually, is that even practical, because you've got all these trades, but what you can do is, because a lot of these pairs will have overlapping products, you can actually net them out, so, so, so, you don't have to trade all these pairs separately. What you can do is create the signals for those pairs, and then net out the signals, and then only trade what's left over, and so you're virtually trading hundreds of pairs, but actually what you find is you just have a portfolio with like multiple components that go up and down, and then just follow the idea of a statistical arbitrage strategy, even though it looks perhaps a bit different from the outside, and so usually this is a much better way to deal with these issues, if you, if you just sort of put on one or two pairs, and then hope it will co-integrate, and then work, it's generally not so good, because as I. Said it's very difficult to actually say if a strategy is broken. I mean, there's these examples from like really high-profile, high-frequency trading companies, and it took them a year, basically, to make a decision whether the strategy is not working anymore or not, you know. So, there is no easy way, in any case, to say a strategy is now broken, or not. I mean, you can have some statistical limits, like for example specific draw down limits, also around this, but for example, as you can see here with the past trading strategy, you might get some really big draw downs, but doesn't mean the strategy is broken. But then you get this, and you can clearly see that the strategy is broken, it just just hasn't worked for, you know, at least two or three years. Okay, so that's definitely a sign, but, but, but you know what criteria do you apply is not easy. So Raga Vendra said at the beginning of the lecture, you mentioned that PCA is widely used in hedge funds and CTAs, since CTAs typically run trend following strategies. While today's class focused on applying PCA to mean rewarding strategies, how can PCA be applied in trend following strategy context? Specifically, can PCA help identify latent factors that drive volatility regimes, and would this improve prediction management and volatility? Okay, so good again. Good question, Ragna Vendra. Now, first of all, you remember, you know what I said with the explained variants, so explained variance is already something that that is heavily used in also in PCAs to look at how diversified my portfolio is, so this is really like bread and butter to do this, but what you're more referring to is trend following strategies, and I just want to give you an interesting example. So you remember when, just when we built the basically the Eichin portfolio. Now let's just say this is the S and p5 100, right? And then we build the Eigen portfolio, and it's, it's built from the first principal component, so it's actually very, very similar to the S and p5 100, right? So it's kind of more or less the same with a slight difference. So this is the first principal component, but then remember, you know, principal components are orthogonal, so let's say we use the second principal component to build a another portfolio.

Speaker 1  2:52:51  
What we can actually find is that the second principal component behaves completely different to the others, so it's actually what you know, we call this orthogonal or uncorrelated to the underlying benchmark, and so what people do, for example, is they actually build these uncorrelated portfolios, and then they do trend following on these uncorrelated portfolios, so that's a one typical application in CTAs, so you build a whole bunch of uncorrelated, because, because imagine, in, you know, in the stock market, you've got about, in the US, about 5000 different stocks, but when you're a CTA, you've got about, maybe I don't know, 130 different futures contract at the most, and so you know there's obviously a lot less choice than in the stock market. So, what can you do? You can actually build new products artificially by basically combining these portfolios, and then you use your old trend following methods on those new products that you basically build using PCA, maybe you build portfolios from the first, second, third principal component, you combine them in different ways, and so on, so so you can actually do trend following that way as well, and this is definitely being used in quite a few CTAs across the world, so I hope that gives you a little bit of a flavor of how PCAs are used, how PCA is used in CTAs. Of course, there's many, many more applications to PCA, you know, and again, I can only give you a few examples here, but these are some of the ones that work on, and that people actually use. All right, so if there is no more questions from anyone, then I will conclude the lecture here today. Thank you, everyone, so much for your. Attention, I really appreciate it. Thanks so much for your good questions, some really, really nice questions here. And I wish you good luck on your quant journey. Maybe I will actually see you again next week, because I give a lecture on reinforcement learning. If not, all the best to you. Good luck, and I hope to see you again someday. Okay. Bye bye. Thank you. Bye.

