Speaker 1  0:11  
Hello all, and welcome to this workshop on statistical arbitrage. Before I begin the session, just a quick audio video check. So if you can hear me loud and clearly and are also able to see my screen, just type yes in the Q and A box.

Speaker 1  0:40  
Okay. Thank you for confirmation, everyone, and very happy to see you today, everyone. So my name is Ishan, and just to give you a brief background, so currently, I am working in contrary research and content team. And prior to this, I worked in Barclays investment bank. And before Barclays, I have worked with Merrill Lynch. So I started working with Merrill Lynch, and then it was taken over by Bank of America. So I got to work with both the firms and in terms of education. So I have done Computer Science Engineering, followed by MBA in finance, and I have also written a book on machine learning for trading with my colleagues at the Contra team. So that's a brief background about myself, and in today's session, I'm trying to cover statistical arbitrage. So the plan for today is Ah, okay, there's one question from Shivraj karival, so can you elaborate your role at this Institute's Yes. So currently, I'm working more on research side, and I'm researching on various con strategies and also as a pad faculty, and also in lot of other work in Barclays, I worked in their risk team, where I used to oversee the OTC products and the various risk and various strategies and other things there, and similarly in Bank of America, Merrill Lynch, I worked in their OTC trading division. So that's about me, and in the today's session, so in the part one will try to cover about stationarity, which is, which is the basic building block of this whole session. Like, if you understand the concept of stationarity, will be easily able to understand and create the strategies which we will try to cover in this session. So that is the first part stationarity. Then we'll move towards a statistical test, which is ADF test, to check for stationarity. And also, what is the mathematics behind ADF test, like, how does it really function? And then finally, we'll create a mean revision strategy on a asset, and we'll analyze the performance. So that is for part one. And in part two, you will understand that it's very difficult to find stationary in a lot of time series. So we'll try to fabricate one, which is combine more assets together and create a stationary series. So that will introduce, then we'll introduce the concept of cointegration. We'll again talk about cointegration test, which is a statistical test to how do we check if the time series is cointegrated or not? Then we'll create a pair studying strategy, and in the later half of the second half, we'll touch upon the softer aspects, like, what is the difference between cointegration and correlation? So a lot of them, people use interchangeably these terms, but they are not the same. So with example, I'll try to explain what is the difference between the both and which one is more relevant for our strategy. Second is, how do we select the pairs which you want to trade in the markets. And finally, and the most important part, which is on the risk management, like, how do you see the risk in this different strategies? So before I begin the session, just want to give you what all gets covered in this great, grand heading of statistical arbitrage strategies. So you can think about like, one way to understand this is if you are just looking at price series of a single instrument and determining the buy and sell signal only on a basis of. Signal single instrument, then we'll call it as directional trading, or we are just looking at a single instrument and determining where the price is headed. So for example, if you just look at the price of corn futures and determine whether you want to go long or short, then we can call it as directional trading.

Speaker 1  5:22  
Now, instead of a single instrument, if you look at relative prices of two assets, so for example, if you don't just look at Google, but if you also look at Google and meta together and simultaneously, you take a long and short position on both, which is Google and meta together. Then we call it as page trading, because you are not trading a single asset, but you are trading a pair together. So that is page trading. And you can simply extend this concept, like, instead of two assets, if you bring in, let's say, Amazon, also into the picture, so you have Google meta and Amazon. So if you are looking at the historical prices of three assets and simultaneously taking longer, short, short position in all of these three assets together. Then we can call it as triplet trading. So similarly, you can extend the concept to three assets, four assets, or N, number of assets, and we can call it as other form of cointegrated trading. So in the first half, we'll focus on the first thing, which is directional trading, where we working with a single instrument. In the second half, we'll be working on pairs trading. And by covering pairs trading, I'll cover in a way that you can simply extend this concept very easily, extend this concept to three or more instruments very easily, so that's the plan for today's session. So now we start with a very basic concept of what is stationarity. But before I get into what is stationarity, I just want to give you analogy to introduce this concept. So so there is a very famous author, Daniel Cameron. You might know him. He has written that book of Thinking Fast and Slow, which is a very good book. If you haven't read that book, I strongly recommend that you can read that particular book, and it will give you a lot of insights into behavioral finance kind of a thing, and how people think and how people take losses, how people think about profit, and all those things. So it's a very interesting book, and you can read, but, but, yeah, coming back to this analogy. So Daniel Carmen is like a very famous personality, and what he has observed is that there is very famous magazine, and the name of the magazine is Sports Illustrated, as you can see on the screen. So he says there is a Sports Illustrated Jinx, which he claims that any athlete whose picture appears on the cover page of the magazine is highly probable to do badly in the upcoming season. So his whole observation is that an athlete who is doing very well and therefore worthy of praises, tends to appear on the cover page of the magazine. But as soon as it tries to appear on the cover page of the magazine, the rest of the performance is very much close to the averages, or below what he has achieved. So it goes back to the poor performance, or their average performance, and that is what is observed. And similarly, if we observe similar things in a price series, like a very good performance followed by a performance which is closer to the average, or if the price fall backs to the mean or on the lower side, then we call it as a stationary price series. So on the basis of this, can you tell me if the close price of Apple is stationary. So the price series, which you see on my screen, do you think it is stationary? You can just type yes or no in the Q and A box I

Speaker 1  9:26  
so the question is, is the time series stationary, which you see on the screen?

Speaker 1  9:37  
Okay, so I visit response, so majority of them have said, No, it is not stationary. And there are a few other observations from this, which is good to see but but just to be clear, that the price of the apple i. Yeah. So the price of the Apple was $50 and then it increased $200 then to $200 and then to two $50 so we can see a trend in this price series. As you can see, it's rising over the period of time, and it's not going back to its mean again and again. And therefore we can say that the price series of Apple is not stationary. It's basically trending over a long period of time. Okay, so let me take another example. I

Speaker 1  10:45  
What do you think is the price series of Nike stationary? You can just again type yes or no in the Q and A box I

Speaker 1  11:15  
So the question is, is this stationary? Nike? Close price.

Speaker 1  11:24  
All right, so this time, all of them have responded as No, which is true. And the point of bringing in this question was very simple, that our trend is not always on on the upside, but is also on the downside. So as you can see here, over a period of time, the prices are actually going on a down side, and we cannot call it as a stationary price series. Now let me take another example, which is third example, and see. Okay, so this is price series of AOD CAD. So what do you think is this price series stationary? Yes, no, or what do you think?

Unknown Speaker  12:22  
Okay, Carlos is not stationary, okay.

Speaker 1  12:36  
All right, so it's a very mixed response. There is a yes. Few of them are saying yes, few of them are saying no, and someone is saying somewhat. And there is lot of other things also. So which is correct? Like, that's the beauty of visual inspection. So whenever there is a visual, visual inspection, when you are just looking at a price series and making any kind of a judgment, and you ask this to a group of people, right? You not to a single individual, but a group so everyone can have a different answer, because someone might say that, okay, the price was here in 2014 around this zone. And over the time it goes up, goes down, and it keeps on moving up and down, and it goes back to the place, which is 0.95 so someone can observe this pattern and can say, Okay, this looks like a stationary price series, but at the same time, someone can look at a different part of a time series. Someone can say, Okay, I just looked at this particular period and the price was in a downtrend. Or someone can say, Okay, I was looking from here, which is this point, and I ended up looking here, which is this point. So for me, it is a down, trending crisis. So for a group of people, they can look at different different angles, different different views, and can come up with a different different answers. So therefore, I will say that visual inspection is always prone to errors, and there is a lot of subjectivity which is involved when you are analyzing a time series only by through your naked eye. Therefore we need a more sophisticated way, or a more objective way, of determining whether a time series is stationary or not. So we'll answer this question whether this price series is a stationary or not, in a more objective way in just upcoming slides, and in that I will clarify whether this time series was stationary or not. Okay, but I. Let's say, if we will just want to get into some technical definitions. So how do you define a stationary price series? So you can define a stationary price series

Speaker 1  15:17  
when you see a price which keeps on going up and then keeps on going down. And over a period of time, you can see it's very close to the average. So we can say there's a definition, technical definition, if a price series is stationary, if it does not deviate much, but stays around the mean. And there could be more even complicated and complex definitions of stationarity, but there is no it's not an exam where you get marks for writing definition, but it's a market where you get where you can make money if you understand the concept very well. So for us, if the price series keeps on coming back to the mean, we can say that that is how we will define stationarity, and but here are the few things which you should be aware of stationarity that someone would say that random work is stationary. No random work is not stationary. And the proof of that can be found at the bottom of the page. You can follow the link where it proves that why random work is not stationary. It only applies to long term property of a price series. You cannot say that. Okay, tomorrow is budget, and the markets generally don't move like budget in India, sorry. Tomorrow there is a budget in India, and markets are open on Sunday. So our finance minister wants like people should also work on Sunday. So tomorrow, markets are open, and tomorrow just for a day, if you observe that markets are not moving, that is what historically also seen in last 10 years, market hardly move by plus or minus 1% so you cannot make a judgment about nifty that okay, only for one particular day. It is not moving much, and therefore nifty is a stationary price series. That is an incorrect judgment. You should look at the long term, long term data points and then determine whether that particular price series is stationary or not. So So you cannot look at a minute, hour or something like a day. Kind of a data you should look at, let's say, at least 190 200 or even 120 days of data and determine that whether a price series is stationary or not. But life is not easy. You will not find many price series which are stationary for a very long period of time. So we'll find a solution in the second half on how to deal with this problem of difficult to find naturally occurring price series. But now get your traders hat on. Now if you know that a particular price series is stationary, what kind of strategy will you deploy on that particular price series? What you.

Speaker 1  18:06  
You can write the answer in the Q A box, okay. Manikandan says straddle, okay. Zubin says mean reversion, mean reversion, mean reverting. Nara and what kind of time series modeling will you do if you know that it is a stationary time series? I guess majority of them are saying mean reversion, and there are some option fans in the group. So there is butterfly from vira Shreya says price is random, but returns are predictable. The spread is stationary. I could not understand, but, but, yeah, pairs or mean reversion, or basically, simply, to put in a more in a more very simple language, like if I were to explain this to a very small kid. So the kind of strategy which will work is that that person will typically draw a line somewhere based on his understanding. Let's say I'm drawing a line at 10, and that person will simply tell me that if the price is below this line, you can buy you can buy here and you can sell here. Okay, so that is buy low and sell high. And that person will also tell me that if the price is above the mean, you can short sell, and then price goes back to the main you can buy again, right? So in a more fancy world, we call this as mean reversion strategy. But in a more simpler world, we can call this as a Buy low, sell high or sell high and buy back at a. Over price point kind of a strategy. But this strategy will only work if we know that the price series is stationary, if it is going to revert back to mean again and again, again and again, then this strategy will make you lot of money. But the only caveat, or only prerequisite, is that the price has to be mean reverting in nature. Okay? So that is where our job lies in that how to identify if a particular time series is stationary or not so. So for that, we will rely on statistics. We'll go to a more objective way of figuring out if a price series is stationary or not. So for that, we'll be using ADF test. And using the ADF test will first figure out if the price series is stationary and if the ADF test gives us a green signal, okay, this is a mean reverting sorry. Stationary price series will deploy a mean revision strategy on top of that. Okay. Vira says volatility of nifty is stationary. I'm assuming, if you're telling me, and can we use that for any strategy building, yes, if you think it's a stationary time series, and if you're allowed to short, short sell also, then you can deploy easily, this buy low, sell high kind of a strategy. But even the volatility are mean rewarding, not only in India, but globally. So globally, there are these ETFs like Wix ETF and Wix C and all those things. So these are generally leveraged ETF and generally volatility occurs in cluster. So you'll have some periods where volatility stays in that high zone or low zone for a longer period of time. So you should deploy a strategy in a way that you have considered the risk or the loss potential also clearly so that you can stay solvent in the market for a longer time and then easily enjoy when the volatility reverts back to the mean. Narayan says, What is full form of EDF? So the full form of ADF is augmented Dickey fuller test, as you can see on the screen. And let me check if there are any question,

Speaker 1  22:37  
right? Narayan, that is correct, yeah. I guess there are no question. So before we move on to the ADF test. So ADF test is very simple, so we want to check for stationarity through a statistical test. So therefore, this gentleman, Dicky Fuller, has created a very convenient method for us. We can just give up a time series and it will give me, it will tell me whether it is stationary or not. But even before we get into the mathematics or how exactly the test is working, a very simple and logical question to all of you is that, why do we have to learn such a complicated test, statistical test. Why can't we just run a back test with a Buy low, sell high, kind of a trading logic, and if the back test is profitable, we know that it is mean reverting. If the back test is loss making, we know that it is a trending time series. So why do we need to learn or do a statistical test, and why can't we simply just do a back testing and be done with it? So any thoughts on this

Speaker 1  23:59  
resume changes? Okay. Sharia says, Could you repeat so the question is, what is there on the red written on my slide, which is, can't we just run a back test with the logic of buy low, sell high? And if that back test is profitable, we know that the price is mean reverting. If it is a loss making, we know that the time series is trending. So why do we need a statistical test to tell us if a price series is stationary or not? Carlos, yes, that is correct. Raga of to check for timeframe for the same so statistical test will not give you any hint or indication on the time frame which is suitable for back testing. Himanshu, if you're talking about parameter. Dollars, then back. Testing is the only way which will tell you the parameters. ADF test will not give you any kind of a parameters at or the labels at which you should be buying and selling. Okay. Narayan, you are giving up the answer. So that's very good. And Shreyas to know the distribution, distribution of the time series, that's a good thing to know about the distribution of the returns. But here we are dealing with prices only. We are not getting into returns because returns, by nature, are stationary, right? You don't need a statistical test. You can, because they will just be in a range only, right? So returns by default are stationary, and you don't generally know the distribution of the prices, like generally people don't calculate that. Reliable for complex data you are getting there. Ritu Raj, it depends on where your confidence lies. If given the option, I would do both. Yeah, you are right. It gives more confidence. But why do you think Vishnu, that statistical test can give you more confidence compared to back testing.

Speaker 1  26:30  
Carlos says is EDF the single best way to test stationarity. No, that is not true, but we are just in general asking like, do we need a statistical test? Like, do we need to do all these things? Or someone with a very intuitive mind can say that, why just not run the back test and be done with it? But yeah, I agree with you. There are other ways also, which is interesting to use. But why do we need to rely on other ways and not just back testing? Okay, now I'll just give up the answer, so there are some. So it's a good discussion which we are having. And the purpose of the discussion is that I have seen that lot of people, if I don't emphasize on this point, they tend to, over a period of time, skip ADF test, right? They think, okay, at the end, what matters is back testing. If my back testing is profitable, I will do live trading. If it is not profitable, I will not do live trading. So they are in that kind of a frame, and that is okay to happen, because once you are working with lot of strategies, you tend to focus more on back testing, live trading kind of a thing only right? You don't get time to think about the importance of various steps which were covered in a session like this, right? So therefore I'm putting extra emphasis on this. Okay, so there are other response also, like back test only tells you if strategy works on sample, so the same sample will be passing to ADF test, which will be passing to the back testing and generally what matters to Trader is profitability, right? That's why they tend to skip this test. Raj says yes. It does help to understand why it is profitable, but, but that may not be the sole reason it is only giving you a yes or no kind of answer, ADF test, whereas back testing gives you more hints, like it can give you sharp ratio returns and lot of things also. Okay, so, yeah, so some of them have already given the answer, which I have intentionally not read it out loud, but now I'm reading out loud on what is the reason? Why do we have to do a statistical test and not just rely on back testing? So the reason for that is, let's say you have this particular price series, and you say that I'll only do back testing. I'll not do ADF test. So fair enough. And for that, you say that this is my mean as what we have discussed. And then you can say that I will buy whenever it goes to, let's say eight rupees or $8 whatever. So these are the points where you will be buying in general, okay, it's a long only strategy. You're not taking short position, okay, so you're back testing, as you can see here. If you say that, let me write here. So buy. If my price is less than eight, let's say $8 okay, so this is my trading rule, and with this trading rule, I am getting

Speaker 1  29:50  
seven signals, right? I'm getting seven trading signals, and I'll make maybe $14 from this. That's my profitability. From the trading strategy. Okay, so I'll square off your square off after making $2 from every trade. So I'll be making $14 and into number of quantity. Let's say my quantity is 100 units. So I'll make $1,400 from this. So back testing is telling me that I have made money, which is $1,400 and this is what I should be doing it. But you see here the policy of this is that you are making your trading decision only looking at seven data points, okay, but there are 100 data points here. Out of that, you have just selected 7% of the data and making your decision only on basis of this that so back testing is very much sensitive to the parameter. For example, if you have taken a parameter of seven only on one trade, you will tell me whether this particular price series is stationary or not, which is very risky, which is dangerous by looking at only few data points, if you are concluding that a price series is stationary or not, is a very dangerous proposition, and therefore a test like an ADF test, actually goes through each and every data points. It will check point number one, point number two, each and every data point is checked by ADF test, and then it comes to the conclusion whether the price series is stationary or not. So this is the first reason and the most important reason on why you should be doing a statistical test before doing a back testing to check whether a price series is stationary or not. Second, which is a minor reason, which is that the statistical test are readily available. Like there is a package in Python, you can simply pass a time series to it, and it will give you an answer in few in less than a second, whether a price series is stationary or not. It's more like a yes, no answer, which you can quickly get, whereas evaluating back testing is a complex affair. Someone will look at returns, max drawdown, sharp ratio, sorting or ratio, and it takes time to run the back testing, evaluate it, and then come to a decision whether it is worthy of trading or not. So all those complexity goes away when you do a statistical test like EDF test. So I hope the reason is clear on why do we want to do EDF test, and let me check if there are any questions we need to make sure that the properties remain stable over time. Yeah, that is correct, and that is the reason why we want to evaluate each and every data point. Right? If you are just evaluating one or few trades, then yes, you cannot be sure that it, it will remain stable over the time and back test for a short period of time can also be misleading. So is ADF test for a very short period of time. So if you do ADF test for five days, that can also be a misleading affair. Okay, I guess all the questions are answered. So I

Speaker 1  33:26  
Okay, Himanshu says there is always trend or breakout. Price cannot be stationary over a very long period of time. That is correct. So that is also I have written here Himanshu, Life is not easy. If life is so easy, then everyone would become a trader. So that's why the edge lies in how we can use this statistical tools, and it gives us the probability on or the confidence level, and that's how we define a trading strategy.

Speaker 1  34:00  
Okay? So let's move on to understand how the ADF test works. So what I'll do is I'll just define that. Dickey fuller have now tried to represent the price series in a form of a very simple equation, which I've written on my screen. So what they have done is they are telling us that the change in price, which is change in price at times then T is equal to is equal to lambda times lambda times price of,

Speaker 1  34:40  
yeah. So it says that change in price of t is equal to lambda times price of t minus one plus some random noise, which is represented through epsilon t. Then they say that there are two scenarios which you have to be considerate about. The. One scenario is that lambda is equal to zero. If lambda is equal to zero, then change in price at time step t is equal to random noise, random walk, right? Because this whole term will become 00, into anything is zero. So this whole term will become zero. So only thing which is left is noise. So change in price of t is a random walk, and we already know that random walk is not a stationary price series. So if lambda is equal to zero, then your price series is not stationary, as per ad fuller test. So I'll use a color red and give a cross that this is not stationary when lambda is equal to zero. Okay. Now the second scenario, which is so most of them says lambda greater than zero, but I'll come to that. So the second scenario is lambda less than zero, because we are talking about mean reversion. We want the change in price to be inversely proportional to the price of t minus one. That's why we'll ask the lambda to be less than zero. So in scenario two, if lambda is less than zero, then there is some relationship which is an inverse relationship between change in price and price of t minus one, which is A inverse relationship because my lambda is less than zero. So if the relationship is inverse, we can say that, since the relationship is inverse, the price series is stationary.

Speaker 1  36:58  
Okay, and let me use a green color and say the price series is station. So very simple. So augmented Dickey fuller have created an equation to represent the price series, and they say that change in price of t is equal to lambda times price of t minus one plus a random noise. And there are two scenarios. So the null hypothesis is that lambda is equal to zero. And if you have significant evidence, sufficient evidence to prove that lambda is equal to zero, then my change in price is equal to random walk. And in that case, the price is not stationary. Second scenario is that lambda is less than zero, okay, and in that case, there is an inverse relationship between change in price and price of t minus one. This noise will not have a much significant role, so I'm ignoring that. So this is approximate sign, and therefore, in this case, we can say that my price series is stationary. Okay, there are some questions. I hope Zubin it is now clear, so I just repeated what you what is this happening? Okay, Tarun says, in the case one where lambda is equal to zero, why the time series is not stationary. So in the case one when lambda is equal to zero, what is happening is, if you look at the above equation, the above equation will become change in price of t is equal to epsilon of t epsilon is basically a noise or a random walk in a very simple language. So if your changes are some random it has no relationship to price at T minus one, but some random noise. So as we have seen in the earlier slides, and there is also proof at the bottom of the screen that random walk is not stationary. So if my change in price is not stationary, then the price series cannot be stationary. Therefore, in case number one, the price is not stationary, if there is a relationship, right? So if my price goes up, which is, let's say this is price of t minus one, if my price goes up and the next move is towards the mean, and then it falls, and the next move is again towards the mean. If there is a relationship of price of t minus one and price of T and that to a negative relationship, then only I can say that there is the price series is mean reverting. Otherwise I cannot say that the price series is mean reverting. So I hope that answers your question. Tarun, Okay, any other questions anyone has, then, if not, we'll move forward. I.

Speaker 1  40:06  
Curve will be like a sine wave for a mean rewarding price series Zubin, and that is to simplify the explanation. But statistical tests are not like a exact science, like if you mix two things, you get the third thing that is science. But statistical test is like a probability thing. It can tell you with some kind of a confidence, like a 90% surety, or a 95% surety, whether they think that the price series is similar to a sine wave or not. Nikola says lambda greater than zero is trending, so it can be trending or it cannot be trending. So it's not part of ADF test, but, but it can be trending or cannot be trending. Again, we need to use a different test to check if it is trending or not. So for that, people usually use host exponent, and if the host value is greater than 0.5 they call it as trending series. Your when it comes to ADF test, there is no guarantee that lambda greater than zero will always result in a trending time series. Can lambda be positive? Yes. Lambda can be positive. If the relationship between change in price and price of t minus one is directly they are related with each other, lambda will be positive. A negative. Lambda does not mean there is negative trend. Why does it tell us there is stationarity? So a negative lambda will only occur if, if there is a negative relationship between change in price and price of t minus one. So David, let me give you a proof for that. Okay, so let's say this is, this is a price series, a sample price series, which you can see on the right of my screen. So it was at six rupees or $6 then went to four, and then it went up to eight, and then, then whatever. So this looks like a stationary time series. Now how exactly this algorithm will work, right? So lambda is nothing but the regression coefficient between this two terms. So that is lambda. Okay, so let us do for the very first point when, when price of t is six, but we don't have price of t minus one, so let's skip this and move to four. So when four is P of t and six is P of t minus one. Okay, so change in price four minus six. Let me write here. So four minus six, so this is equal to minus two. So change in price of t is minus two, and price of t minus one is six. So change in price of t which is Y axis, and price of t minus one is x axis. So this is minus two, and price of t minus one is six. So this is the first point which we are having. Okay, so let me erase this to make space. Okay, so this is point one. Now we look at point number two, we move forward, and now this is P of t, which is eight, and this is P of t minus one, which is one point before T, right. So what is change in price, which is eight minus four, so change in price is four, and price of t minus one is again,

Speaker 1  44:12  
four, okay, so which is four, comma, four, and this is the point, okay. So, so, so on. There could be a lot of points, but for simplicity, I'm just covering two points, and then finally, to find the value of lambda. How do we find the value of lambda? It's through regression, right? So we first have to draw a line which will connect this two points. I'm just joining a line that will connect these two points, and the slope of this line is nothing but lambda. Okay, so since the slope of this line is negative, I hope that is clear to everyone what is slope of the line so it's on the you. Can see it's a slant line on slightly tilting line, right? So therefore we can say it is a negative slope. Otherwise, if the line would be like this, then it's a positive slope, right? It's a concept of, how do we see it? Okay, so here we can see that it's a negative slope. Therefore lambda is negative and therefore this price series can be a stationary price series. Okay, I hope this answers your question, but yeah, this has to occur like this is just two points which we have considered, but ideally, EDF test will consider all the data points which you pass to it. So for example, if you pass 100 data points, it will consider all the 100 data points, and there will be like points, something like this, and a best fit line will be drawn through it. And the slope of that line, we get lambda. Lambda, divided by standard error, will give us the t start value will got, get a t stack value, and that teach that value we have to compare with the critical value table to see how significant it is for us to say whether the price series is stationary or not. So that is what we are covering now. So once we do this ADF test, so the null hypothesis is that lambda is equal to zero, which is the price series is not stationary, and the alternate hypothesis is lambda less than zero, or price series is stationary. So if the hypothesis is rejected, then there is a relationship between change in price and price of t minus one, hence it is stationary. So once you do this ADF test, you will get a t start value, as we discussed. We first need to find lambda. So lambda is nothing but the regression coefficient, lambda divided by standard error is gives you the t start value.

Speaker 1  47:12  
Once you have the T state, t stands which is test statistic value, you compare this test statistic or teach that value with the critical value. So critical value is already given here. And if this is less than critical value, or in this green zone, then the price series is stationary. Price series is stationary. If it is less than critical value, okay, and if it is greater than or in this blue zone, we fail to reject the null hypothesis and say that the price series is non stationary. Okay, so where does critical value come from? So that is based on numerous data points and numerous experiments which they have done, they have come up with this critical value, and where does t start come from? T stat, we already know where it is coming from, and once you do a comparison, you get the verdict. So you can think like, like, there are 1000s of students who have appeared for a test, so they know how what qualifies as a good student. Then a new student comes in, takes a test, and let's say he scores a 70 marks. And from numerous result, you have that anyone who is scoring more than 60 marks is a good student. Then a new student comes in. He scores 70 marks. You tell Okay, he's a good student. And if he scores less than 60 months, like a 55 Marks, then you say it's a bad student, for example, or not a good student, rather than saying bad trend, not a good step. Similarly, you have critical values, and you take your time series, pass it through ADF test, you get a teach that value, compare it with critical value. If it is less than critical value, it is stationary. If it is greater than critical value, it is not stationary. So let's do a quick quiz on this, on how to evaluate and work with t stack value.

Unknown Speaker  49:11  
Okay, so let me start a poll. Just give me a minute.

Unknown Speaker  49:39  
Um, where are polls? Rahul, do you know?

Speaker 1  49:51  
Okay, anyways, I can't find the polls, but let's say the first question is t start value of minus 3.0 Five stationary with 95% confidence level. So we have a critical value of minus 2.87 so you just have to type yes or no in the Q and A box. So

Speaker 1  51:09  
okay, so,

Speaker 1  51:19  
okay, you can attempt both the questions in one go. Lot of them have attempted together.

Speaker 1  51:37  
Okay, I'll just wait for 30 more seconds so everyone can attempt you can type for question one and two together, Whether you think the price series is stationary or not.

Speaker 1  52:38  
Um, okay, so, so, so this closing poll in next five seconds, everyone can quickly type in. I am still seeing response coming in.

Speaker 1  52:57  
Okay, so to see this, the answers are mixed, like someone has answered both the questions correctly and some of them answer both the questions incorrectly. So that's good. In fact, that's consistency in logic. So no one has answered both yes and both No. That's good to see. So it's either no, yes or yes, no, which is good to see. Okay, so the time for correct answer. So I guess majority is right, your majority of them. So the correct answer is, let me write on the screen. So this is minus 3.05 so it will lie somewhere in this green zone. And since it is in this green zone or less than the critical value, the answer to the first question is yes. And similarly for the second question, it's minus 2.4 so it will lie somewhere here which is minus 2.4 so since this value is greater than the critical value of minus 2.87 the time series is not stationary, so you should create a mean reversion strategy on on the first time series, and you should not create a mean division strategy on the second Time Series. So now I open the floor for questions.

Unknown Speaker  54:28  
Okay, let me check

Unknown Speaker  54:39  
questions. Questions, yeah.

Speaker 1  54:55  
Zubin says, Can we say market noise factors can overpower the equation? I. Absolutely So market noise can, in fact, create a lot of ambiguity, or that is the biggest problem, right? Because of the market noise, we are not able to see the good thing. And in fact, that creates also some kind of or the other trading opportunities in the market as well, but it can overpower the equation, and some of the stationary time series might not qualify as stationary because of the market noise. Narayan says it's not too much of trouble. Can you explain? How do we solve this hard time understanding hypothesis testing. Okay, hypothesis testing, you want me to explain?

Speaker 1  55:53  
Okay, yes, so let me try it in a very simple way without making it very complicated. So hypothesis testing is that it's more like, how do I say, Yeah, forget about the word hypothesis. Let's focus on the word testing, right? So testing is any form of testing, okay? So generally, what we are testing is that, by default, we are assuming that the price series is not stationary, and then we will try to reject the null hypothesis. Okay, so we'll try to generate sufficient evidence and say that this is not true. For example, what can we do? Hypothesis Testing on let's on this price. It is only so by default, we are saying that the price series is not stationary, and we want to collect sufficient evidence to prove that. Okay, you are wrong. Price is in fact, stationary, right? So that is how we form the problem statement, and that is called as hypothesis testing, or whatever you want to test. In this case, we are saying hypothesis testing is nothing, but we are testing whether the price series, the default claim is it is not stationary, and we are trying to generate some evidence where we can reject the null hypothesis. Okay, now, how do we go about it? So for that, we have this equation, and in this equation we'll try to figure out the value of lambda. First, that is through regression, right? So you all know how to do regression. Regression is for those who don't know what is regression then? So we have a equation of a line which is y is equal to mx plus c. So if you do a regression between Y and X, you can find the slope and the constant the slope is nothing but lambda. Once you have the value of lambda. You divide by standard error, you get a t start value, and that t start value will compare with the critical value, and from the comparison, you know whether this particular time series is stationary or not, or whether you should reject the null hypothesis, or you don't have sufficient evidence to reject the null hypothesis. So that is how hypothesis testing works. But in a very layman language, it is just you have certain claims. Your the claim is that the price series is not stationary, and your alternate claim is that price series is stationary. So you are collecting the evidence and trying to prove that the price series is stationary, that can be done, as we have seen, by using the teach that value and the critical value table. So I hope that answers your question. Narayan, okay,

Speaker 1  59:05  
okay. And I guess someone was asking, what is standard error, also? So, so standard error, where is the pen? Yeah. So standard error, standard error, so that is nothing, but you first calculate standard deviation, standard deviation of the price is and divided by square root of n. Yeah. I hope this is the formula, yeah. Standard error is nothing but standard deviation divided by square root of n. So this will give you the standard error and lambda divided by standard error should give you the T side value. Two and teach that value you compare with the critical value. Now, how to standard, calculate standard user? I'm not answering that question. It's very straightforward. You have a price series, right? And yeah, I'm not answering that question, but yeah, it's very straightforward. How to calculate standard deviation, if you have any doubts, we can connect after the lecture, and also I can clarify what is integration. That is no problem for me, but we can take at the end of the question, so n is the number of data points agreement, and let's cover the standard error, standard error, standard deviation, all those things. At the end of the session, you can stay back. I'll also stay back, and I'll help you clarify everything in a most simple manner. Is that okay with everyone?

Speaker 1  1:01:01  
Okay? Perfect. So, so now what we'll do is we'll test for stationarity, but in a Python notebook. So what we'll do is we'll open a notebook. So here is the notebook, so where we have to go to this code, which is ADF test. So in that, we'll try to find out if audc ad is stationary or not. So first, we have to import or read the data, which is AUD C ad dot CSV file. And in that, we'll use pandas, PD, dot, read underscore, CSV, and we'll set the index to the date time, which is the zero column, or the first column is set to index, and then we convert into a Date Time column. So this is how the data looks like. And we have 3404 records for this, and we plot the time series. This is similar prior time series, which you have seen in the earlier part of the session. And we have asked, I have asked you the question that, do you think it is stationary or not? And for that, we'll call our star performer, which is ADF test. So ad fuller is available in stats model, dot TSA, dot stats tool, and you can simply import ad fuller. If you don't know what the method is doing, you can simply call health hclp, and in round brackets, pass the name of the function and it will give you everything. But I feel this is now outdated, right? People will go to chat GPT and ask, what does ad fuller does? But anyways, that will also give you the same answer as what the help is doing, giving it to you. So first of all, we have to understand the parameters it is taking. So it is taking array like one dimensional. It should be one dimensional, right? It cannot be multi dimensional because it's a price series which we want to test, and not two three price series which you want to test for stationarity. So a single, one dimensional array should be passed as x. So here we want to pass this particular close prices, so we'll pass data dot close, and this close prices will be passed to the EDF test. So let's do that. So we are calling ad Fuller, and our first parameter x is equal to data dot close. Now what is max like? So Max leg is basically the number of lag terms you want to consider in the testing. So while considering our example, we only work with t minus one, but you can work with more more terms, like t minus one, up to t minus k. But the reason is that the more number of terms you consider in determining whether there is some relationship and it is stationary or not, there are more chances of overfitting. So therefore, in all practical purpose of trading, will restrict ourselves to only one lakh term so the max like parameter will set it to one. Okay, so Max leg is set to one. Now there are some other parameters also. So if there is regression, what kind of regression we need to do? Constant only, or constant end trend and quadratic trend and so on and so forth. So we'll go with the default value here, which is C only. And if you don't know how to set the max leg, then they are giving four option, which is through AIC, B, I, C, T, stats and null. It will help you automatically determine what should be the max Select Term. So you either set max leg or you select a method to select the max leg. This. Is AIC, BIC, and so on and so forth, which is out of the scope for today's lecture, and other things are optional. Okay. Now what does it return? So it returns the test statistic, which is what we are interested in, and which is the zero parameter. Okay, so when we run this, the results are stored in ADF underscore results and ADF result zero, which is the very first parameter, gives me the t start value. So the t start value is minus 2.697 or minus 2.7 Okay, now I compare this with critical value of 90% confidence. So that is minus 2.5 so since this is more negative than minus 2.5 we can say that AOD CAD is a stationary time series with 90% confidence.

Speaker 1  1:05:59  
Okay, so once we know that this particular price series is stationary, we move forward, and then we apply a mean revision strategy on AUD CD to see whether it is profitable or not. So let us apply that. So to apply mean reversion strategy, these are the steps which will be following. So we'll be using Bollinger band to determine the deviation away from the mean and then determine our trading signal. So the steps are will read the data from CSV file, calculate averages, moving averages and standard deviation upper band and lower band, long and short position. And finally, strategy, PNL. Okay, so these are the steps. So read data is very much simple. Pandas, dot, read underscore, CSV, and your file is read, how to calculate moving average and moving standard deviation. That's also pretty straightforward. You can say closed dot ruling, and you specify the time period for which you want to calculate mean. So here we have selected five so five days will be used to calculate the mean, and five days will be used to calculate the standard deviation and to calculate the upper band. What we'll be doing is moving average, which is calculated here, plus 0.5 times standard deviation. That will give me upper band, and for lower band, it is moving average, minus 0.5 times moving standard deviation. Okay, now you will have this query, how to select the look back period of five, and this 0.5 so to select the look back period of five, there are two ways. One is you can have you can divide your data into two parts, which is train and test. You can have multiple values like 510, 1520, in the training set and see which parameter does very well. You lock into that parameter and then verify in the test data set whether it is giving you similar results. So that is one way another is you can set the look back to some multiple of half life. How to Calculate Half Life? The code is given here, and what is half life? Half Life in very layman language, is how much time does it take to complete half the cycle, half the cycle of the mean reversion. So if that is taking five days, you can set the look back to 510, 1520, 25, kind of a period. So that is about selecting look back period. And the second question which you have is the width of the Bollinger Band? Someone would say that generally, we select two standard deviation. Yeah, I guess someone already asked this question. So why is this 0.5 so generally, it's a function of number of trade signals which you want to generate. So if you set it to two standard deviation, the number of trades which you will get is very low, and which works well for a highly volatile instrument like Bitcoin or some small cap stock or some some highly labored stocks. But when you're dealing with a currency pair, like a UDC ad, if you set it to a high standard division, you get lesser number of trading signals. So generally, you set it to a lower value, like a one and a 0.5 standard deviation. So this also you can make it as a function of the asset on which you are trading in.

Speaker 1  1:09:34  
Okay. Next question is from Manikandan Kittu Swami. So he asked like, if in AOD CAD 90% confidence says that it is stationary, and 99% confidence says it is non stationary, which should be considered to be more precise. So, so the question to answer that question. It's basically pretty straightforward. So there are various significance level, right? 9995 and 90 Okay, so if you are just consider this that you are hiring in your team, right? You have you want to hire for your con team, and if you keep the parameters very stringent that he should be from a very good college, like an IIT or some big college. He should be from done the masters from some great US university. He should have experience of 15 years. He should have traded profit Lee or on AUM of over this that. So if you keep lot of criterias, the number of candidate pool will get selected, will be eligible for your role, will actually keep on limiting, right? That will reduce, and you want to hire a team of point of 10 people, for example. So if you keep your hiring criteria very stringent, you'll hardly get two or three people who will actually be eligible and will be selected for your role. But let's say you wanted 10 people to be part of your con team. So naturally you try to relax the criteria, you'll say, okay, experience of 15 years. Let me go with experience of 10 years, for example, and so on and so forth. So that is how you should think about this. If you're okay with the number of assets which you're getting with 99% confidence, then go ahead with that. But if you think, Oh, I'm only getting one or two assets to trade with, which is very dangerous, I'm not getting diversification benefit. So in that case, you loosen your criteria. You go to 95% and to 90% but don't go beyond 90% then you are just compromising on too much on the quality of the people who are coming into your account team. Similarly, here, you will be compromising too much on the the assets, the main rewarding assets, which are coming into your team. So this is a function of number of assets which you want, and the quality of the asset in all practical cases, 90% is a good number to work with. Manikandan for selecting which assets are stationary in nature.

Speaker 1  1:12:22  
Okay? So, so, yeah, we are here. So once we select the price series, we now move ahead and we now move ahead and create a mean reversion strategy on top of it. So we are done the initial pace work where we have calculated the moving average moving standard deviation, and using that, we have calculated upper band and lower lower band. We also discussed how to calculate the look back period, the width of the Bollinger band. And, okay, there's one question from vishwanathon. He says 0.5 standard deviation has a confidence level of 38% in a normal curve, so 0.5 standard deviation has nothing to do with the confidence level, which we have understood in the ADF test, is just a trading parameter. It's more like whether I should take a moving average of 60 days, 200 days or 90 days. It's just one of the parameter. So this, you can set it to 2% 1% whatever. So, and I guess 38% you're referring to that standard normal distribution, right? So, okay, so in that case, is just that, if you're referring to this normal distribution chart and saying that 0.5% only covers 38% of the area, that is okay. What we are more concerned with is that the price has to revert back to the mean, which we have already verified using the ADF test. Now we want to determine the entry point. So whether we want to enter year, or we want to make, make, wait for more standard deviation, or even more standard deviation. So the more away you move from the mean, the lesser the number of trades are. But obviously the profit per trade which can make also increases. So as I mentioned, these are all indicative thing. It's not like a hardcore thing that you only have to go with 0.5 I am telling you that I have taken 0.5 and this is the rational you can still go in with standard deviation of two, with some rational which you have in mind, which is all okay. So

Speaker 1  1:14:48  
okay, so here is a glimpse of what is happening. So let's say blue is the price of AOD CD, and let me show you a demo of. What is happening? So whenever the price touches the lower band will have a long entry into this particular price series. So price less than lower band long entry. And whenever the price touches the mean will have a long exit in this strategy. And whenever the price hits the upper band will have a short entry, and when it comes back to the mean, will have a short exit. Okay, this is the strategy, and now we'll code it in Python, so we have this things which are being calculated, which is close moving average and lower band. Now we'll calculate long entry and long exit. So as you know, long entry is nothing but when the price is less than or equal to lower band, and the exit is when the price is greater than the middle band. So similarly, will define your long entries close less than lower band, and long exit is close greater than equal to moving average, which is my middle band. So as soon as I write this line of code in Python, it will get populated by this true false value. And as you can see here, on day number two, my close 97.5 was less than the lower band of 98 so This triggered a long entry signal into AUD, C, ad, and on day five, my close was greater than the moving average, and therefore exit was triggered. So I was in long position on day 2345, and on day number five, I exited from this position. So now how to make this continuous, right? So I have long entry, long exit. Now I'll have something like position long so I initiated my long position on day number two. And whenever long exit is true, I say I have zero shares of audc. So whenever long entry is true, I'll have one share. And when it is long exit is true, I'll have zero shares. So how to code this in Python? I'll say that whenever long entry is true, which is I'll initialize this column with nine values, and I'll say df, dot Loc, DF, dot wrong. And entry which is this particular column, if it is true, set the position long column to one. And whenever this particular column long exit is true, set the position long to zero. So now I have one and zero which is populated. My next step is to carry forward this position until I find a zero. So for that, I'll use a fill any method to carry forward the forward filter previous position. So in Python, we have a fill any so I'll say the name of the column dot fill, Na, and method is forward fill, so my previous position gets carry forward, and this gets filled with one, this gets filled with zero. So here I get an indication that I have a long position on day two, day three, day four, and on day five. Since it is zero, I will close my position similarly. For short, only the sign changes so close greater than upper band and close less than moving average, triggers the entry and exit respectively. And I am representing short position by minus one, which says that I have minus one shares of AOD CD, and zero indicates no position. Similarly, I'll forward fill to indicate exactly on which days I have long or short positions. Then finally, I'll combine the long and short position into a single column, which is the positions column, and to calculate the PnL, I'll take the difference in the close price and multiply by the position column to get the PnL, to get the cumulative PNL, I'll take a cumulative sum. This is for dollar PNL or a rupee PNL. For returns, I'll calculate the percentage change and then multiply the position with percentage change instead of difference in price. And to calculate cumulative returns, I'll say strategy returns plus one cumulative product. So now let us see how this strategy is performing. Okay, so first we read the price here, and this is how the prices look like. We calculated moving average and moving standard deviation, so your we have calculated for five days. So from fifth

Speaker 1  1:19:46  
day, the price, the moving average and standard deviation values are coming in, and we calculate upper band, lower band, and long entry, long exit, position, long Similarly, by setting it to one and zero. A similar thing we do for short position, and we have a final position. So to calculate the cumulative return, we calculate the percentage change, multiply by position, and calculate cumulative returns. So this is how the cumulative returns from the strategy look like. So for every $1 which was invested in Jan 2012 it is now up to 1.8 so there are periods of sideway returns, as you can see here. So the strategy was struggling a bit in the middle period where the returns were not very good. But there are some good periods also, of late, the strategy is working quite well, as you can see here. So, so, yeah, the key is you can have more assets. This is on a single asset, but you can have more similar assets, so you can easily overcome the problem of when the price is not in when the strategies, when a strategy is not making money on a single asset, the others can chip in. But this was a fantastic period for the strategy, where it gave 35% returns in almost two years. So that is there, and what is the risk. So we calculate the drawdown. So drawdown is 11% which was 11.3% which was seen in initial years. But overall, you can see that it gives around six to 8% kind of a drawdown on an average in last eight to 10 years, which is the backtest history. And if you want to do a more rigorous analysis, then you can also use spy folio and pass the returns, and it can do a more rigorous analysis of the returns. Okay, so I'll now open the Q A box and answer all your returns. Okay? Shreyas says,

Speaker 1  1:22:14  
considering RBI intervention, how to run mean reversion strategy on USD in our futures. So as I mentioned, this strategy is not suitable for each and every asset class. There has to be some rational why you want to apply on USD INR, because USD INR is a declining, or maybe trend declining. For INR perspective, it's a declining price series where it declines at the rate of five to 7% every year the USD INR futures. So it's not a mean reverting kind of a price series. So so I'm afraid that RBI intervenes to make it look more like a mean reverting price series. But in long run, if you are caught in a wrong direction, then there are chances that you might incur losses in USD, in our futures. And the reason I have selected AOD CAD is that both Australia and Canada are energy driven economies, right? So I don't expect them to behave very differently from each other, so that's why I have selected that. But similar case could be for Euro and Swiss franc, because both are geographically similar or close by economies, and they their performance might be similar. So if you have some rational on why your particular time series should remain stationary, then only there is a case for checking for ADF test and doing all this analysis, this will increase the probability of success while trading this particular style of strategy. But, but given that, if you are able to model RBA intervention and all those things, then maybe yes, you can even trade in USD, ANR,

Speaker 1  1:24:07  
okay, so I guess there are no other questions. So we come to the end of the first half of this workshop, and we'll take a break of 15 minutes. So it is 525, here. So we meet back at 5:40pm, India time. So in the second half, it's even more interesting. So please do join back where we try to cover one more interesting strategy. Thank you. Bye.

Speaker 1  1:39:14  
Hello and welcome back to the second half of this session on statistical arbitrage, so we now continue our journey, and if you have any questions from the first half, feel free to add them as well. So so far, what we have learned is that we get the historical price data, we check for ETF test. If it passes, then the back test analyze the performance. If everything good, then we light treat it. But what happens is that, and some of you also made a comment that it's very difficult to find a price series which stays stationary for a very long period of time. Right? So, so what do we do? Like trading on just handful, like two or three asset will not make sense, especially if you have large amount of capital which you want to deploy on such strategies. So what is the answer to that? So the answer to that is pace trading, which we'll find out in this particular session. But before getting into what is page trading, we will first get into some history behind page trading. So page trading was first developed and used in mid 1980s by nunzo tartalia quantitative group at Morgan Stanley. And even before Morgan Stanley, there is a brief history. Like, like, there was one chap who used to work with traders, and he was kind of a geek, kind of a thing. Like, he loves, he loved computers and all those things, patterns and other things. So he observed that whenever traders used to take position in one car company, like a Ford Motors, the other car company was not being very active, but after some time, it either used to catch up with the four motors, or four motors, price used to correct back to its Normal. Once the trading activity used to reduce, but there the traders didn't pay any heed to his observation or strategy, and therefore he left that group and joined nunzo, nunzo Nunzio tataga group at standI, where Nunzio heard him out and allowed him to implement the strategy, and they coined the word as pair trading. And pair studying is a contrarian strategy designed to harness mean rewarding behavior of CO integrated instruments. So why contrarian? Because we, once the price moves to a particular point, we expect that it reverts back to the main therefore it's a contrarian strategy, not a momentum or a trend following strategy. And David Shaw, who is the founder of the Shaw, was also part of that con group at Morgan Stanley, and he left Morgan Stanley and started his own con trading firm in late 1980s dealing mainly in page trading, and since then, a lot of firms have tried with page trading and triplet trading and lot of other form of cointegrated trading and some form of index arbitrage, and try to use machine learning and various service trading algorithms. So that is how the state of this is it's a very old way of trading, and still there is a lot of innovation and research keeps on happening in this particular style of trading. So now we go back to the point of how to exactly create or implement this particular strategy, which is pairs trading. So for that, we need two assets which are cointegrated with each other. Now, what is co integration? So when you create a portfolio of two or more assets, let's say gold and silver or or anything, right? And if you combine them in such a way that the portfolio value is stationary. So let's say this is gold and this is silver. So if I combine them such that portfolio behaves in a more stationary fashion, then we can say that gold and silver are cointegrated with each other. And once you know that these two assets are co integrated and the resultant portfolio is stationary, it's very simple. You can buy when the portfolio value is low, so buy low and sell high. Kind of a strategy can be easily deployed on the portfolio. So for this particular exercise, we

Speaker 1  1:44:11  
will use two assets, which is ew a and ew C. So Ewa stands for Australia, ETF, it tracks the investment result of Australian equities. And EWC is for Canadian equities. It composed of it's an ETF which tracks the results of Canadian equities. So you can get more details about this product from iShares website itself, and we'll be using this two assets to create a pay stating strategy and why this two asset. Because, as I mentioned, both Australia and Canada are more both energy driven economies, and I don't expect one asset to be the. And behavior of one asset to be very different than the other asset. So now, as you can see here, the orange one is the Canadian ETF, which is EWC. So individually, it is a trending asset and difficult to implement a stationary mean, revision kind of a strategy. So is Austrian ATF, it's trending, then falling and then rising. So individually they are like, in like falling. So individual they are like falling, then there's a trend. There's again, a trend and a trend. Okay, so difficult to create any kind of main revision strategy on this kind of an asset. But if you see similar thing with EWC, it's also like a trending asset only, right? So both the assets you can see that will not make money of the first standard strategy which we have created in the first half. So what do we do in that case? So the idea is very simple. What we can do is, rather than trading this asset separately, we'll trade them together, and we'll trade the difference between the two. So as you can see here, the difference between two is increasing and then decreasing, then again increasing, then it reduces, then it rises. You can notice the length of the lines which I am drawing. So you would notice that the length of the line keeps on changing, and you will see that it is fluctuating, and that creates an opportunity for us to create a mean reversion strategy on a resultant portfolio. So we can simply buy when the length is higher and square off the position when the length is shorter. Okay, so let us see how the combined portfolio looks like. So ignore this 1.5 for now, but simply, I've taken a difference of EWC minus Ewa, and this is how the portfolio looks like. So it is, as you can see here, I'm just creating a line, so on the face of it, it looks like it is like a very mean, rewarding kind of a portfolio, right, and therefore our buy low, sell high kind of a strategy could make wonders trading this particular asset. Now comes an important question of how to get to this 1.5 thing, which I have written here.

Speaker 1  1:48:11  
Okay, so you can't just take any arbitrary combination of instrument like, because that may or may not result in, may or may not result in a cointegrated price series, so only some combination of instruments are cointegrated, right? And that is more like a mathematical explanation. But if I were to ask you, like, if, let's say, if there are two assets, let's say one is a proper large cap stock. So there is a large cap stock, let's call it as L and the other variant is a small cap stock or a Bitcoin or any like a very volatile asset, okay, so naturally, the volatility and the performance of these two stocks will be very different from each other. Now if you simply take a spread of l minus s to form the spread, then what will happen is that majority of your fluctuations in the spread will be actually driven by only one asset, which is s because you're the movement is more like, let's say, 1% plus or minus, but in a small cap stock, the daily movements can be as high as 10% plus or minus, right? So if you have such kind of a portfolio where you are giving equal weight and not respecting their volatility, then the resultant spread will be very much similar to the. Small cap stock, right? So just to give you an example, if this was 100 and this is, let's say 50, for example. Okay, so next day, there is no movement in large cap stock. So this is still 100, and there is a change of 20% in small cap stock. So so it now goes to 60. So suddenly, the spread has now changed from 50 bucks to 40, and that entire change is driven by small cap stock only because we are giving equal weight to both large cap and small cap. So therefore there is a need in which we should not give equal weight to large cap and small cap, or the two assets in the portfolio. We should respect their volatility and give a volatility friendly ratio to them. So how to come up with that volatility friendly ratio? So that is the method which is given here. So we do a linear regression to find the H ratio. So linear regression is will be done between e w c and e w a, so which is nothing. But let me put E W C on y axis and e w a on x axis, and I can plot the daily returns, sorry, the price moments of this two assets here, and then draw a line to it. And the slope of the line is nothing but the hedge ratio for me. So this is nothing but the hedge ratio. And therefore I say that this is whatever the hedge ratio comes out to be into a will be my spread. So your the spread comes out to be 1.5 ah, 1.5 times a so that is the spread.

Speaker 1  1:52:15  
So that is how we came up with this 1.5 as you can see on the screen by first calculate doing a linear regression, then calculating the hedge ratio using it. Okay, let me check for any questions, and then we'll move forward.

Unknown Speaker  1:52:41  
Okay, so there are two questions. Please explain hedge ratio again. Okay, so let me explain through a notebook.

Speaker 1  1:53:00  
Okay, so I'm just taking a notebook. So you're I am taking the price of two assets, which is Ewa and AWC, reading in x and y, combining them together in a data frame, DF. Now,

Speaker 1  1:53:22  
yeah. So combining them in a data frame, DF, okay, so now what I'm doing is I am now plotting this on y axis we have Canadian ETF, and on x axis we have Australian ETF, and these are their daily prices, right? So on some day when Australian ETF was $11 this would have been $16 right? So these are the prices of Canadian ETF, and these are the prices of Australian ETF, and for each day, I am plotting them on a scatter plot. Okay? So once I'm done with plotting on a scatter plot, I'll draw a best fit line so that it can have minimum errors while fitting the line. And the slope of this line is nothing but the hedge ratio. So this takes care of the volatility profile of the two assets. Okay. Now, as you all know, what is the equation of the line? So equation of the line is equal to y is equal to M into x plus c. Okay. So what is Y here? Y is the Canadian ETF? What is x here? X is Austrian ETF. And what is the slope of this line? The slope of this line is nothing but the hedge ratio. And let me write hedge ratio. Then that is nothing but edge ratio. Okay. So now you will say that why I'm ignoring constant. I'll come back to that. But this is how we form the equation that. And then obviously we have to work it out. So we take this HR into a hedge ratio into a on the LHS. So spread comes out to be c minus hedge ratio times a, okay, so just bringing this term on the LHS so the sign from positive will change to negative, so it will become c minus c minus H ratio times A, and that is nothing but the spread. Okay, so this is this hedge ratio component takes care of the difference in the volatility profile of the two assets, which is Canadian ETF and Australian ETF, since the voluntary profile is not much difference, the hedge ratio value here is 1.5 but sometimes, if there is a huge gap, then you can even see large multiples, like 10, 1500 soon, and so forth. So, that is it. So. I hope that explains what is hedge ratio.

Speaker 1  1:56:17  
Ragav, if you need any more explanation, please let us know.

Speaker 1  1:56:39  
Okay, now I will go into two or three more questions for for you guys, and then, so these are more technical questions. So first question from my side is, so in order to calculate the hedge ratio, we are using OLS, which is ordinary list square method. So ordinary less square method, we are just passing first 90 days of data. As you can see here, we are just passing first 90 days of data. So can anyone think like why we are just passing first 90 days of data and not the entire price series,

Speaker 1  1:57:38  
rolling returns. Raga says? Any other comments? Why we just want to pass first 90 days of data to calculate the hedge ratio, and why not use the entire data set?

Speaker 1  1:58:18  
Okay, any guesses. I hope everyone is awake on this session. And,

Speaker 1  1:58:34  
okay, yeah, there are some responses, okay, so stable hedge ratio, in fact, lower the number of data mints, less stability. It will get latest correlation between the two. So that is partially correct, but not the real reason to capture the mean rewarding cycle for training. Uh,

Speaker 1  1:59:04  
the overfitting of data, test data and train data and yeah, so that is correct, and overfitting and all those things is the outcome, the secondary outcome, like by product of this. But the real reason why we are restricting ourselves to only 90 days of data is that, as you would have noticed, that hedge ratio is one of the important ingredient in the strategy, right? So you would have noticed that the entire spread, what the spread is, is actually formed basis of this 1.5 right? If I change this 1.5 to some other number, the spread will look different, right? We all agree on that. So this 1.5 is one of the important. Ingredient in this. So the real answer is that why I am restricting myself to only first 90 days of data is to prevent look ahead bias. So I can also write it so people can make a note of this is to prevent look okay,

Speaker 1  2:00:26  
so what is this bias all about? Right? So it's a very popular term, and the majority of them, especially the newcomers in this field, tend to ignore this bias, which is there, which is very easy to get into the strategy, and you will not even notice this. So what is look at bias is that looking at the entire data, like looking at what will happen on Budget Day, which is tomorrow, and taking trading signals on Friday, which was yesterday, right? So if I know that tomorrow the market is going to go up by 5% what I can do is I can simply buy nifty yesterday, on Sunday, the markets will go up by 5% and I can make lot of money. But such strategy, is it possible? The answer is no, I can't trade like this, right? What is going to happen tomorrow? So I take a trade trading position on basis of that, similarly, I cannot use the entire data to figure out what will be my hedge ratio, right? Because that is nothing but look ahead bias. So in order to get what will be that 1.5 what will be my hedge ratio, I have to restrict myself to a certain data and don't use that data for back testing or determining what is the PnL from the trading outcome, right? If I do that, if I use the full data, and then say, okay, the haze ratio is 1.5 and then do trading on that is as good as I know what is going to happen tomorrow, which is the Budget Day in India, and taking trading position, which is yesterday, Friday, since that is not practical, similarly, I should not be creating a trading strategy which looking which looks at the future data. So that is the reason why I have restricted myself to only 90 days of data while calculating the hedge ratio. Now the second question which would come to your mind is, how to get that magical number of 90 days, like, how to select the look back period? Should it be 90 days? 91 days? 100 days, 1000 days? How to get to that number? So to answer that question, so it's it's not a magical number. You can take it based on your own personal preference, but it has to be little bit longer. It cannot be very short, like two days, okay, this is the age ratio, and I'll go ahead with that. So it should not be very shorter, and it should not be very long. Like you are taking data of 10 years of data and figuring out what is the hedge ratio, because in that case, you will miss out on what is the current relationship between the two assets. Like, think of like two individuals 10 years back, they might be very much in a good books, they might be good friends. But currently, the situation would have been changed, right? They might not be meeting each other, they might not be talking with each other. So similarly in a stock price, or this asset prices, 10 years back, the scenario would be different. Currently, the scenario would be different. So, so 90 is what currently I am using it, but you can use 100 Days, 120 days, or even some other number, but don't take too short period, or don't take too longer period for determining the hedge ratio. So that is point number one, and I

Speaker 1  2:03:45  
the second is on the constant front. So, so you would have noticed that while calculating, while calculating the hedge ratio. So is basically a line right? So which line is determined by y is equal to mx plus c. So by calculating this, I have set constant to zero right, and simply fit the line which is equal to y is equal to mx. So can anyone give me the reason why I have ignored constant while calculating the hedge ratio.

Speaker 1  2:04:36  
So the question is, why do you think I have ignored constant while calculating the hedge ratio.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:47  
Or why did I set it to zero?

Speaker 1  2:04:58  
Because we just need. Dependent term. No, that is not the real answer. We need only the dependent term, or no, we just need the slope, which is m. We don't need constant, but we have to set it to zero, right, because that will change the value of the slope, right. C is market noise, which is not relevant here, no see, is not necessarily a market noise. Derivative of y by x of a constant is zero, but again, we are not taking a derivative here. Derivative might be zero, but we are not taking a derivative here. So

Speaker 1  2:05:46  
because price of any ETF can't be zero, isn't there? Now we are not talking about price of the ETF, but we are talking about the constant term, which is okay, let me explain. I guess maybe the difference is not very clear. So there are two scenarios, maybe I need more space. Okay. So there are two scenarios, scenario one, where constant is not zero, and scenario two, constant is zero. Okay. So when constant is zero, so let me write it. Constant is zero, the line has to pass through the origin. Okay, so when constant is zero, so the line has to pass through origin. So that is the scenario which we are talking about, your constant is equal to zero. Now consider another scenario where constant is not zero. Okay, so what will happen in this case is that constant will have some value, which is, let's say, some value like a, okay, so this will be the value so it will not pass through origin, and this will be the value for y when x is zero. So this is x axis, this y axis, and y will have some value when x is zero, which is equal to a, so y will be equal to C. When x is zero, okay,

Speaker 1  2:07:38  
then x is zero, your y will be equal to zero, then x is zero. Okay, so this is the difference in the two scenarios which I am referring to, which is scenario one and Scenario two. So my question is, why did we go with scenario one and not with scenario two? So I hope the question is now very clear,

Speaker 1  2:08:15  
slope would not affect slope of the line. No, it will impact the slope of the line, since both are similar instruments,

Speaker 1  2:08:33  
error of one pi series cancels the error of other because they are meantroverting. So error is one more term which is there, which I haven't talked about but see, constant is not error. Constant shifts the baseline and it also shifts the slope. So as you can see here, the slope will change whether it passes through origin or if it does not pass through origin. Therefore, this seems like older comments. We are assuming zero abnormal returns. We are assuming constant to be zero. We are not commenting anything on the returns. We would obtain the value of y. Yes, that is correct. Shivaraj, so just to give you answer to this case is like you can think about this in two ways. One is more logical brain, and other is more mathematical brain. So I'll give you first logical answer. So let's say there are two assets, which is one of the trending asset currently, which is gold. So gold is represented by GLD. So GLD is one of the ETF which tracks the investment in gold. And there is another asset, which is GDX. So GDX is nothing but tracks the investment in companies which mines the gold. So these are gold miners, and this is gold ETF. Right? So the logical reason is that if the value of gold miners become zero, there is no one who wants to mine it. So logically, the value of gold should also go to zero in that case. So that's why zero comma zero for very two similar results. If one goes to zero, the other should also naturally be go to zero, there should not be value to it. So similarly, that is more like a logical reason. And the mathematical reason is that when you are estimating two things, right? So in a normal equation, you are estimating slope of the line, and second is the constant term. So more the number of terms you have to estimate, the higher the chances of overfitting, lesser the number of terms you have to estimate lesser the chance of overfitting. So by estimating only one term, which is the slope of the line, we are reducing overfitting. So that is more like a mathematical argument, and Scenario one is more like a logical argument of why You should ignore constant while calculating the hedge ratio. Okay?

Speaker 1  2:11:24  
Okay. David says, but in order to have c equal to zero, you need to have two price series re based on the same base. That is not required, right? We haven't rebased GLD and GDX. They both start from a different starting point. So all the linear regression equation which is there, so it will suddenly change from y is equal to mx plus c. So suddenly the constant will disappear, and it will be just y is equal to mx. And if you're referring to rebase, so rebase would be that when y is 0x, will be also zero. So if you're talking about rebasing in that way, then yes, that will happen. But apart from that, because it has to necessarily pass through origin, the slope of the line would change, and this line will result in less properly fitted line compared to this. So the standard error, the error, sorry, the sum of square errors in Scenario two would be lesser compared to scenario one. But still, we are going with scenario one because we are more comfortable with a price series which is more generalized, rather than over fitted.

Speaker 1  2:12:40  
Vishnu, you're right. We are assuming the instruments are same, and if one goes to zero, the other might as well. So therefore it has to be very close to zero. Okay, so let us move back so with this to clarity in mind. So just to summarize quickly is that we saw that two there are two assets. They are individually not stationary. So we try to come up with a innovative idea that, why not combine the prices of these two together so that we get a stable portfolio? So we thought of combining them in a way that EWC minus 1.5 times Ewa. So we get a stable portfolio, stationary portfolio, and we can easily apply buy low, sell high, kind of a strategy on it. We discussed, how did we get this 1.5 so we got this 1.5 by doing a regression between the Canadian ETF and Australian ETF, and the slope of that line is 1.5 so once we have the spread, the next important step to do is to check if the spread is stationary or not. Okay, so in order to check the spread is stationary or not, we have a convenient core for us. So what we'll do is we have this two price series. We'll pass the two prices through OLS method. So ordinary, less square method, by default, will ignore the constant. You don't have to worry too much about it. In fact, if you want to add constant, you have to write a code for it to add constant. But by default, it will ignore the constant terms. And you fit a model, which is you fit a line to it, and the slope of the line is hedge ratio, so it comes out to be 1.5 so as you can see here, the slope of the line is 1.5 so we create a spread. So spread is EWC minus 1.5 which is the hedge ratio into Ewa. So we have the spread here, which looks something like this, and we take this spread now we have a single one dimensional array. We take this spread and pass it to the ad fuller test. And as you all know, ad fuller x is nothing but spread Max leg is set to one, so we get a p star by. Value of minus 3.09 so this minus 3.09 is more negative than the critical value of minus 2.67 and therefore we can say that the spread is stationary, and you should deploy a mean reversion strategy on this. Okay, so now it has passed the stationarity test, which we are looking for, and therefore we'll go ahead with with creating a main revision strategy on this. If there are any questions, Saeed, you can pass on some questions to me. If there are some questions which are coming up, but okay, Vira says C minus lambda A will be zero. So that is, that is we are forecasting, right? So we are trying to fit in, fit an equation, right? So y is equal to mx, so So y minus mx

Speaker 1  2:16:10  
will be equal to zero, if the forecasting works exactly perfect, right? If m is able to explain 100% from x y, but that is not the case, right? So I'll just show you that. Yeah. So if each and every point on each and every this blue point was on this green line, then what you're saying is y minus mx should become zero. But each of this point is not on the green line. There is an error to it, and therefore it is not zero, and that is how the spread is getting created. Okay? And

Speaker 1  2:17:04  
so this base question is already answered, Saeed, you can also clear the queue for me, so that if there is any open question, I can quickly answer that. And is this question open from Carlos Sagar, no.

Unknown Speaker  2:17:26  
It. I'm typing it out. Okay, cool.

Speaker 1  2:17:36  
All right, so yeah, so just to quickly summarize what we have done so far is that.

Speaker 1  2:17:46  
So we have two prices which are individually not stationary. So we thought of a novel way. Let's let's combine together and see if the resultant portfolio is stationary or not. So how to check if it is stationary? We take the resultant portfolio and pass it through the ADF test, which we learned in the first half. If it's if the T star value is more negative than critical value, then we see that it is stationary. So if you read books or some papers or somewhere else, all these steps, they are doing it in a in a more sophisticated way. And they call it as angle Granger method, two step method, method to find out co integration. But that is nothing. But if you read the code, sorry, if you read the code about it, you will see that they are doing the same thing. So I'm just typing out the name of the method. So somewhere, if you read you will read about this angle. Granger approach, two step procedure for co integration analysis. They are actually doing the same thing. They first try to find out the hedge ratio, and on the basis of the hedge ratio, they will see whether the spread is cointegrated or not. So someone asked this question. It's just a more easier way, like you can in Python. If that is available, you can do it, but be careful. If you directly use of the shelf method, they might be using the entire price series to calculate the hedge ratio, and that will include, introduce look ahead buyers. So therefore, it's always better that we calculate them separately, like we just use 90 days of data to calculate the hedge ratio, and then use that spread to see if it is stationary or not. So we check for cointegration, and once we know that the spread is cointegrated, the next step is to create a mean reversion strategy on it. So here the spread is y minus hedge ratio times x, so y is nothing but Canadian ETF and x is Austrian ETF. We have the spread. We calculate the mean of the spread, standard deviation, upper band and lower band, and rest of the things is. Is pretty much the same. But the only difference which you would notice in this strategy and in the first strategy is in terms of trading the spread, because you can easily notice that spread is something which we have created of our own right. It's more like a fabricated thing. If you call up your broker. If you call up zero da and say, okay, place a spread of HDFC Bank in Kotak bank, and they say, Okay, what needs to be done? I don't know, right? Because there is no tradable asset like this, like a spread of ET, ew and EWC, or a spread of GLD, CDX. So you have to place individual orders in GLD, you have to place individual orders in GDX. Similarly, for Indian you have to place individual orders in HDFC Bank and individual orders in Kotak bank. So how much and in what direction you should buy and sell? That is what I'll cover next. So let's say your spread is something like this, which is y minus hedge ratio times x. So in order to buy, if you want to go long on the spread, or this is a spread, right? This equation of the spread. So if you want to go long on the spread, there is an implicit plus one, right? So in order to go long on the spread, you will buy one share of y, and since it's a minus sign, you sell hedge ratio share of x. And if you want to take a reverse position, which is a shorting, you sell one share of y, and by hedge ratio share of X. Okay. Now just to make sure that you have understood this concept, so I'm just asking a quick question to all of you. Please pay attention to this, and you can type the answer in the chat box. So let's say your spread is GLD, a minus three times, g dx, plus 0.5, times USO. So uso is basically US oil, okay, so for mining gold, people typically use oil. Therefore I'm also bringing oil into the equation. So if this is the equation of the spread, and the question is, you want to short the spread, the signal is to short the spread, what should be my position and the number of shares in each of the three assets, you can just type in the Q and A box. You

Speaker 1  2:22:59  
have to tell me the quantity and the direction. Direction is whether long or short. And quantities, one share, two shares, five shares, whatever it is. So Is the question clear? Then you can just type it. So

Speaker 1  2:23:57  
okay, so I've received seven responses, but it's a huge strength of the class. So I request everyone to please answer this question. There are no marks to it, but it's just like an exercise will help you understand the concept better. So

Speaker 1  2:24:50  
if anyone wants to revise the answer, please feel free to revise if you think I can see some wrong answers as well.

Speaker 1  2:25:21  
Okay, so thanks everyone. So now let me reveal the answer.

Speaker 1  2:25:34  
And the answer is, first of all, we'll first determine whether we are we want to go long or short. So, so since we want to take a short position, so all the plus sign, which is there, will take a short position. So in GLD will take a short position, which is indicated by s, in uso will have a short position, okay? And in GDX, since it's a negative sign and we want to go short, we'll take a position of long in GDX, so, GLD, short, GDX, long, and uso again, will go short. Okay? Now comes the quantity. So how much so quantity is very simple. We just have to copy paste here. So there is an implicit plus one, which I mentioned to you. Your it is three and your it is 0.5 now someone would say that in my particular geography, fraction trading is not allowed. So how can I take 0.5 shares of any particular asset? So in that case, no problem. If fraction trading is not allowed, you multiply all three, all these three numbers such that that fraction goes away. So by multiplying by two, this becomes one, right? 0.5 into two is one. So all the numbers I will multiply by two. So what I get is two, GLD, six, GDX and one US oil. The direction remains the same, so you can quickly verify with your answer, and if you need more clarification, then happy to answer that.

Speaker 1  2:27:33  
Okay, so I'm just moving forward. Thank you. So you would have noticed that you also learned about triplet trading in a way. So by teaching you pairs trading, we also ended up trading in three assets together. So that's the beauty of this, like you can learn and easily transfer learning to more things easily. So So now let us check the performance of this strategy, Ewa and EWC. So now everyone can pay attention to this, and we can take up your queries at the end. So yeah, this is a mean revision strategy. So what we have done is read these two assets, and this is how the two assets individually look like. Then we calculated the spread. We already done the co integration test in another notebook, so I haven't done in this notebook, and we straight away move to implementing or back testing mean revision strategy, which we have learned so calculating moving average standard deviation, upper band, lower band, long entry, exit and long and short vision, so on and so forth. So here I'm taking a look back of 30 days for calculating mean and standard deviation. And the width of the standard deviation is two which I have kept here, and the cumulative returns. So the formula here is changing little bit, which I will deep dive into later. But there is the percentage change I multiply with the position to get the percentage change, and the cumulative return is the same. So we have 50% cumulative return with a sharp ratio of 1.01 so now let me show you how the percentage change formula is changing here with the help of an example. So we have two assets, which is Ewa

Speaker 1  2:29:36  
and EWC. So let's say Ewa was 10, and then it moved to 12, and EWC maybe some random number like 15, and it stayed at 15, only, okay, so this is day number one, and this is. Day number two, okay, now to calculate the spread. So spread, spread, for simplicity, I'm just taking a minus EWC minus a, okay, so 15 minus 10 is five. I'm just ignoring hedge ratio for simplicity. And 15 minus 12 is three. Okay, so the percentage change daily percentage change from day one to day two, so you would have made is basically it moved to three from five, right. So that is a PNL of minus $2 right. And in order to calculate the percentage change, I should not be dividing this by the initial amount, which is three, then this is an abnormal returns, right? Minus two over just three is incorrect, right? So I should not be dividing by three, but I should be dividing it by the cost to purchase Canadian ETF, which is $15 and also to short sell Australian ETF, someone would say that I will get money. But in real life, I have to put up some margin money, which is anywhere between 25 to 40% but here I assume that I have to put in, let's say, 100% of the capital in order to go short. So therefore it's 15 plus 10, which is the full capital required to short Austrian ETF. So therefore the answer is minus two divided by 25 which is equal to one divided by 12 and a half percentage. And that is, that is some value, maybe some eight percentage or six percentage, kind of a loss which I have incurred, right? So this is how I should be calculating the P and L of the return. Sorry, this is 4% Yeah, no, sorry, 8% is correct, yeah. So, so, going back to the code. So,

Speaker 1  2:32:40  
as you can see here, the code the change in percentage is the difference in the spread divided by the capital required to take a position in the spread, which is hedge ratio times Ewa plus one is the quantity into EWC. So that is the total capital. So we get the percentage change, and this is how the strategy returns looks like. So this is one of the very good stable equity curve, which you can see with during the covid especially. I was also very surprised to see this during the covid and actually made quite a lot of money, where everyone was running here and there. And during the covid time, the strategy saw spike here, and overall, one of the most stable strategy, and even you can see the drawdown profile, so it's 5% which you can see here, was in 2016 and overall, between three to 5% is the drawdown profile of this strategy. So you can try this on Kotak bank, HDFC Bank, you know, all the similar assets which you could find in the market. So I'll just see if there are any questions. Shreya says, can you take Indian stock or ETF examples? Yes. So Indian stocks and ETF example is Kotak bank and HDFC Bank, and all you have to do is change this line of code. And I am sharing I have would have, you would have access to all the code, which is here, simply change the price and rest of the code. You run it as it is, and you will see the performance of that also.

Speaker 1  2:34:30  
Okay, so now comes we are at an important thing, so we have done with the strategy. Now let's talk on the softer things. So first is the difference between the co integration and correlation. So a lot of people get confused, and they say it is the same thing, including me in the initial year of my career. But they are not the same. They are different. So what is co integration and what is correlation? So co integration, as we learn today, it is whether the spread between the two instrument. And is stationary and has to be looked at the long term. With respect to long term thing, it should not be looked at like an for a minute, for few seconds, for hour or a day. So we look for some days or quarter together. Correlation is whether the two instrument are moving in same direction, opposite direction, or some random direction. It can be for short term or long term. Okay, so here is an example where there is a correlation, but no co integration. So green line is moving up and the blue line is also moving up. But if you see the cointegration, which is the difference in the two, so it was, let's say, initially 40, then it is actually increasing from 40, 5060, and eventually to 100 point. So there is no co integration, as the spread is actually trending. If I plot this spread, it will look something like this. Therefore, these two assets are correlated. Because one is moving up, the other is also moving up in the same direction, but are not cointegrated. Similarly. This is an example of co integration without correlation. Is there's a change in blue line, it is moving up, it is moving down, but there is no change in the green line, so there is no correlation, but the spread between the two is plus 10, zero minus 10, zero plus 10. So it is a mean reverting spread between the two asset and therefore these two assets are cointegrated, but not correlated with each other. Now we come to an important part of pair selection, but let me check if there are any questions. Mainak Kundu says any suggestion in this type of strategy will be good in stocks or commodity market. Any help on it on options market? So, yes, that's the topic. We are at pair selection. We'll cover this topic in detail for you.

Speaker 1  2:37:13  
So. But before I get into pair selection and what kind of stock, what kind of commodity, or should you do it on options? Let me explain you why pair trading works, so that you can appreciate on what kind of stock or commodity or what kind of market it will work. So cointegrated pair are assumed to be mean reversing in nature. Once the spread diverges, the probability of reversal increases, right? So therefore, if you choose the pair from same industry sector or similar to each other, as we have done today, Australia and Canada, extreme divergence from mean is rare, and you are safeguarded, right? So keeping that in mind, the very first step is qualitative selection. So we can select ETFs, currencies and commodities which are exposed to common economic factors. So ETF example I've already shown you, which is Ewa, EWC, and there are tons of ETF, if you go through you will find that they are very much similar to each other, which gives you fertile ground for creating such pairs. Second is currencies. So we looked at AOD, CAD, Euro, Swiss franc, and there are plenty of examples of currencies which move in same direction. There is no mention of commodities, because most of the commodities are kind of have their own brain. They work in a very different way. But last year was very different. Like all the commodities are trending, including gold, silver, natural gas, lean hog, or you name it, copper, copper also has done very well in last one year. But commodities is a very different market, very difficult market to find correlated commodities somehow. Therefore there is no mention of commodities here. And in terms of stocks, you can select Stocks from same sectors, similar market cap, similar ratios. And the bad and good part is. The good part about stocks is there are many choices, right? There are 1000s of stocks, and easy to find pairs from them, but they lose co integration very easily. So it's always advisable to go in a portfolio, kind of a setup when you're dealing with stocks. Once you're done with selecting the pairs, the next is to do a cointegration check using ADF test, and then a back testing whatever strategy you want to deploy on it and see if the results are satisfactory to you or not. Okay, here are some of the examples, because you can better understand with the help of example. So here are the two famous ETF, which is GLD and GDX. GLD is the gold ETF, GDX is gold minus ETF. As you can see here, this is how the prices are moving for these two assets, and they are moving in very similar fashion. And if you are okay with triplet trading, you can also introduce us oil to the equation and see if it adds overall to the strategy returns or not. The second example which everyone typically gives in the session is of cocogo and Pepsi. So both of them are into the similar business, and also their assets are moving in similar direction, as you can see here. So this is one of the classic example of page trading, which you can see here, another example is of American Airlines and Delta Airlines also. You can see here the prices are moving like if one is rising, the other is also rising. Fall is followed by fall in another, the shapes are matching, and such volatility creates opportunity for base trading in this asset. So American Airlines and data Delta Airlines, Bank of America and JP Morgan for India, you can think about HDFC Bank, Kotak bank. All the private banks can be combined. But of late, they are not giving profit, which is required, but yeah, still worthy of considering in US market. It's Bank of America and JP Morgan, as you can see here, they are moving in tandem with each other and maybe worthy of verifying whether they should be considered for page trading. So here are the some of the examples which are good for page trading. Now comes the crucial part, but before that, there is one question from Zubin. Zubin says, so is correlation? Mean? There is a possibility for co integration. So I just showed you the example, right? That it's not a guarantee that if there is a

Speaker 1  2:42:15  
if there is a correlation, there has to be a co integration. But ideally, co integration is a necessary condition. And correlation is not but if you add it to your existing strategy, it will not cause any harm. Just to give you some background, when I was given this very first project during my early years, I actually ended up using only correlation, and that was a big mistake, because correlation necessarily does not result in a mean diverting spread, and you tend to lose money. But if you know that this cointegrated, and you add one more condition to check whether they are highly correlated, then that increases the probability of success of your trading strategy. I hope that answers your question. Zubin and David has one more question, yes, probability is higher. Suvin, what about building pairs with single stocks and an ETF replicating the market so

Speaker 1  2:43:25  
yeah, so that is typically, some people call it as index arbitrage, or something of similar sort. So David in India, what people typically do is they have bank nifty, which is the index on the one side and the top five to six components of the index makes up around 70 to 80% of the bank nifty. Okay, so what they will do is they will keep the y variable as bank nifty and x1 x2 x3 as the stocks like HDFC Bank and Kotak bank and State Bank of India and access bank and so on and so forth. Okay, now they will try to trade this as, not as a pair, but maybe like a cointegrated series, and when, whenever there is a significant deviation in the prices of bank nifty compared to this portfolio, they will take the appropriate position. So that is pretty common. And it's good to see that you had this idea in the mind. The whole idea of this session is that to provoke thoughts of ideas and the possibilities which are there around statistical arbitrage. So that's very good to see that question from you. Okay, so now we come to the most important part, which is the risk management, and try to explain with the case study.

Speaker 1  2:44:52  
So statistical arbitrage is not a risk free strategy. Why? Because, rather than so people, tends to get. Use right? People say that, Oh, arbitrage, you are making a lot of money. So that is not true. It is a statistical arbitrage. It is not a pure arbitrage. So pure arbitrage is something like, you buy bitcoin from one exchange and sell on the other exchange, and whatever gap it is, you make money out of that spread. So a lot of people make money. That is a pure arbitrage, but here it is a statistical arbitrage, where you buy and sell a particular asset and you square off after some time with the expectation that you will be squaring off in a positive way. So rather than converging the spread, if it begins to diverge away from the mean and it continues to trend then, then you will lose money, right? So that should be an important thing in your mind. And why would that happen? Maybe some extreme event. Maybe, if you have a pharma company in your pairs, trading, pharma company versus some another pharma company. What can happen is that pharma company might receive some US FDA alerts or some inspection warnings or whatever, which might cause a crash in the price of that particular asset, and the other asset might not have that kind of an event, and therefore it might not see a significant drop in the price or maybe a good result in one asset. So just yesterday, Nestle announced a very good result. Nestle India, in India, they announced 45% growth in the profit and 18% growth in the top line. So that is quite good for a company like FMCG, company growing like an 18% in Indian markets, and suddenly that stock will trend right. And if you have another company like ITC, people are always worried about ITC, especially during the budget days, because they are always worried like, if government has no avenue to collect tax, the only thing which they will resort to is to put text on this cigarettes, which is one of the main core business on tobacco, which is the main core business of ITC so, so if you are having such extreme moments in one of the stock in your spread, it is likely to cause you loss In the in this particular strategy. So what is required? So you require strict risk management once the mean rewarding behavior is invalidated, right? So what kind of risk management you can place is that you can think about risk management from multiple angle, multiple perspective. So one of the most simpler thing is, and which can be done at a pair level, is that you can have a strict stop loss Take Profit Mechanism before entering into the trade. So that is one second is you can have multiple pairs in your portfolio, so which will bring you the diversification benefit. So if one pair is incurring loss, the other pair is there to support you second. Third is that instead of just putting all your money in a pairs trading or a statistical arbitrage, you can allocate fund to different kind of strategies. You can put money in momentum strategy. You can put money in some long term buy and hold strategy. You can put some money in some high frequency trading or whatever, create a diversified portfolio so that which can safeguard you from from a downfall in a single trading style. Okay? Now, lot of things will come to your mind, like, what kind of stop loss can be placed? Like someone just ask Shreyas, just ask, like, should we place a trailing stop loss, or what kind of stop loss? So stop loss can be placed in through multiple way. Maybe Sagar, you can continue to answer on how to calculate trailing stop loss, but stop loss can be a fixed, fixed stop loss, like $1 stop loss, maybe $10 can be a stop loss. So that is a fixed stop loss, or it could be a variable stop loss. So variable can be in terms of percentage. Maybe five percentage is one way. Second is maybe, if you are entering at two standard deviation, then your stop loss can be at 2.5 standard deviation, so on and so forth, so variable in terms of percentage or in terms of standard deviation. Or you can also have some multiple of ATR to place the stop loss.

Speaker 1  2:49:39  
Jesse says multiple of ATR, so yeah, either standard deviation or ATR, both are a function of ATR only to calculate the stop loss. But this is all standard technique. Now I'm just going to reveal you how exactly I place stop loss in this kind of a trading strategy. See, because I feel that is what we have seen based on the trading experience, that works out to be more logical way of thinking about placing a stop loss. Okay, so what we typically do is like there is a trading strategy and it's initially in a back testing phase, okay, once the back testing phase is over, it typically enters into a paper trading phase, which is a compulsory because otherwise you won't discover any errors in that. So that is a paper trading phase. And once the paper trading phase is over. Then finally, there is a green signal, the fund is allocated, and the live trading begins. So live trading is always very different than what you have observed, but sometimes what happens is that a stock or the spread typically tends to trend. Now, where exactly to place the stop loss, that is the question. So we typically place the stop loss based on the levels which are never experienced in the paper trading market and in the live trading market, sorry, in the paper trading market and in the back testing. So this is back testing, this is paper trading and this is live trading. So let's say in back testing and paper trading, a stock has never, or a pair has never, crossed a standard deviation of three and suddenly live trading it crosses. Then this is the point we stop trading. We not only stop trading, but we also remove this asset from our universe, this pair from our universe, and give it back to the research. Thing like, please, research is that something wrong with this pair, because it has suddenly crossed the level which are never seen in the back testing and paper trading. So that is how we consider stop loss in this trading strategy. So

Speaker 1  2:52:05  
okay, now we come to a case study, which is on LTCM. So I hope most of them would be aware of what is LTCM, but if not, I'll just let you know that LTCM was an American hedge fund, which used highly leveraged strategies, and it was founded by some bright people. So it was founded in 1994 by John Meriweather. Maybe people will not know him, but he was a born trader at Solomon brothers and the famous persons like Myron shows Robert Merton, you can recall like they were Nobel Prize winners for having developed black shows, model for option pricing and lot of things. So very intelligent people, high on IQ people, and they came together to form this hedge fund, which is long term capital management, and it received three point no, it received a lot of money in the initial years. Now, someone would say that what they did with this money, they just did what we covered in today's session. The main strategy was to find pairs of bonds, because John was from bond trading, so they were very good in bond trading. John Meriweather from Solomon brothers, and they just found pairs of bond and predicted the spread, spread, which I covered in today's session, y minus mx. They just calculated the spread between their prices and and when this pride widened, which is the moved either up or down, they basically placed a bet that the two prices would come back towards each other. So they call this as convergence trading and use corn models, which is Bollinger band, to exploit deviation from fair value in relationship between the assets which were there. Okay, so it was the brightest star on Wall Street, right? Why brightest? Because of the amount of money which they made. So the first year, obviously they are more careful. So after fees, they made around 21% which is expected. But in the second year, it was pretty awesome. 43% in second year and 41% in third year. And people were like, okay, good people, Nobel Prize winner. People, coming together. Nothing can go wrong, and you're is like God on Earth, and let's make a lot of money. So that's where greed came in. They become more greedy. They became over leveraged. And in 1998 which is four years from their founding, they lost four. 6 billion in less than four months due to combination of high leverage and exposure to Asian financial crisis and Russian financial crisis, and which led to their collapse. Okay, so, so their strategy, any problem, no problem. But what happened is they were highly levered, and because of the leverage, they could not stay solvent in the market for long only four months. Only four months is all it took for them to go out of the market, right? If they would have survived that period, somehow, if they would have not leveraged so much, they would have kept some capital buffers, because anything can go wrong, even strategies which I create sometimes or what lot of time it loses money. But I keep capital buffers so that when the times are good in market, I make a lot of money during those times, and when markets are not good, I still have capital buffers so that I don't get margin calls. I don't get bankrupt. I don't have to close my shop. But that was missing in this Nobel Prize winners. They didn't get enough capital buffers. They, in fact, relied too much on back testing that they never thought such situation can occur, and because of that, they had to close within four years. Imagine that if they would have kept those capital buffers such a brilliant hedge fund it would have become in so many years. So that's about risk management. So please don't over, rely on back testing and always keep proper capital buffers so that you can stay solvent in the market. So just a quick summary, stationarity and cointegration are important for creating profitable mean reversion strategy. ADF test is used to determine whether two price series is stationary or cointegrated or not. Stock prices are unstable. ETFs and currency pairs are good candidates, but there are limited

Speaker 1  2:57:00  
choices for going here. Further reading is you can read about index arbitrage. Johansen test is another test, like an ADF test to check for cointegration. You should also read about common pitfalls in back testing, like various things and half life. Here are some of the references which I've used during this session. So thank you for them, and we will be very happy to stay in touch with with with a very smart group like yours. You can connect with me on LinkedIn, just mention ePAT so that it's easier for me to accept the friend request, connection request, and for those who are interested in additional readings, here are some of the additional readings which again refer to. So that's it. And now I open the floors for the question so we are right on time on 7pm and we'll take all the questions which you have. Please feel free to ask your questions. And thank you, Zubin for your kind feedback. You

Speaker 1  2:58:23  
okay, so now I take the questions, why did they what did they do after bankruptcy? Shreyas, that's a very good question. Maybe Wikipedia would have that information of what exactly are this chaps doing maybe somewhere you're Yeah, but that's a very interesting question to ask. So yeah, maybe we'll move on to the next question. Shares, but yeah, we can meet over a coffee or some lunch and discuss about what they are doing and what we as a pad group can also do, and maybe create our own trading desk and trade, Okay, any other questions, anyone else, or Also, if there are any questions which are unanswered or you need more clarification, you can also ask now, or feel free to email it to our support team. The email address of the support is support at the rate, content, street.com, and I'm 100% confident that all your queries will be answered to your satisfactory level.

Speaker 1  2:59:47  
Okay, great, so there are no other questions, so we now close this session, and thank you for the wonderful audience, and hope I was able to bring some value to your training journey. So. Thank you, see you in the next session. Bye, take care. Bye.

