Speaker 1  0:05  
Hi everyone. Welcome to this session on volatility trading. So this is the fourth part of this lectures, and so today we'll focus completely on aspects of volatility, starting with the measurement, and then we'll discuss how to forecast it. And then, based on these forecasts and measurements, how do we structure the trade before you move forward, can you guys type it out in the chart, if my screen is visible and my audio and my voice is clearly audible, is been Thank you. Yes, I've recovered pretty recently. I'm doing good now. Thanks, guys. Thanks for the confirmation. So in the last lecture in OTS three, we discussed, we reviewed few terminologies that were already there in primer, and discussed in OTS two as well, but majorly we discussed about a pricing model, and also what are all the features a pricing model would have. In fact, we focused on Black Scholes model. We discussed what is the what are the inputs for a Black Scholes model, and what is the output and what is the equation? But more than that, we discuss, we focused more on properties of black swallows models and how Greeks are related to that, and we had an introduction to different Greeks. So as we move forward, we are going to use this Greeks a lot, but in this particular lecture, we are going to focus more on volatility. So only Greek we are going to discuss again and again today would be Vega. A keeping that aside in OTS four, we start with measurement of volatility, and also we'll see what are all the ways volatility can be forecasted. But it's not just about forecasting, because volatility is just a number. It doesn't hold any any representation or interpretation until it is contextualized well. So we're going to discuss how to contextualize this volatility number, and then we are going to strategize few trades. And again, we in what is two also, we had this discussion about variance premium, like, why would a premium exist in any scenario? We'll extend the same thing and see why volatility premium exists in different asset classes because it's not the same. It's not the same approach you take to trade different asset classes, especially when it comes to option trading, and also when it comes to volatility. So we are going to dissect each asset class and understand how different volatility phases would evolve there. Then we come to most famously used strategy, which is covered call, which is pretty basic, yet widely used by retail traders. But then we would include more and more complex strategies like capturing weekend premium or capturing variance during earnings, etc. Last but not least, last time we discussed one of the disadvantages or difficulties of trading options is selecting the strike price. So today we are going to see a method to a mathematical or a scientific way to approach on selecting the strike price. So this is our agenda today. So let's start with the basic question we discussed the last time, which is, why do we need to trade options? The simple answer is, because it gives you more optionality to express your view on market. A simple example being if you believe market is going to be volatile, if you're trading equities, you can't do much about it unless you know the direction right. But when you're trading options, you can actually strategize and combine few calls and put so that you can capture that volatility and make money. So that's where we are leading to so last time, we also discussed put call parity. Essentially, the main takeaway, though, is because there is an effect on put and a call, whenever there is a change in option, you can combine these put some calls to express your view. For example, today we are going to see how you can combine these puts and calls to express your view on volatility. But before we go there, and the very first question we get is, if I have to trade volatility, how do I measure it? In fact, people who already have a bit of an idea on measuring volatility, the common question is, how many data points should I take? Or more common question would be, should I take daily data to calculate volatility or a monthly data? Or should I go for a high frequency data? So that's where the question comes. What is N How many data. Points, or what frequency of data points you need to catch to calculate volatility.

Speaker 1  5:07  
But there is no standard way to calculate volatility. In fact, whatever number you get for volatility measurement doesn't hold any true value. You will get to know what I'm saying with more examples in Mnet. But essentially, whenever you're thinking how many data points you need to collect, as many data points as you have, you would have more closer to accurate measurement of volatility. But let's, let's take, let's take it with examples. So let's take this example. This is just an example. Consider you have 30 data points, and imagine 0.3 should have been your volatility measurement. So that's it's mentioned as true volatility. So considering 30 data points and if 0.3 is your correct volatility. Now whatever method you use in general, not every single time you get 0.3 for example, you can see a histogram here where, in different different instances, you are getting different volatility values, but on an average, you are getting 0.3 so this is very important because depending, for example, if I Measure volatility of let's say stock Tata Motors, today, it might give you some value, but if I measure tomorrow, the value might change. But if I consider, let's say, 1000 data points, or 10,000 data points using some kind of a price simulation, then on an average, I can get value which is closer to the real value. So why are we discussing volatility in these terms? Because depending on the method you take and depending on the data points, for example, if you're considering daily data points, then your volatility would be different to, let's say, a monthly data point or a weekly data point. So this is a common, common difficulty that everybody faces whenever they are measuring volatility. So that's why there are different methods that are approached or that are kind of constructed to create volatility measurement which is closer to the real value. For example, if you see what is a dependency of n, which is total number of observations. As you have more and more observations or more and more data points with you, your volatility would be less volatile, or, I must say, your volatility would have less and less error. So I know all these things looks theoretical. Let's start with the common measurement, which everybody uses for measuring volatility. So in general, it is a common practice to take standard deviation of log returns to measure volatility. So you must have seen this equation. This is a statistical equation, but when it comes to finance, more often than not. Whenever people wants to measure volatility, if somebody asks you, what is volatility of a particular stock, it's very common to take standard deviation of log returns. But there is a problem with this approach, which is actually a very logical problem, which is this particular statistical approach is used when you have a population in hand. So when I say population statistically, if you have all the data points related to this scenario, then you can use it. But when it comes to stock market, you don't have population with you, but you only have a sample. Let me give an example. Let me take up a chart. So let's take apple. So if you and let me just delete this, if you take apple, let us take last five years data,

Speaker 1  9:06  
or let's take all the data. So what it indicates is, if I'm taking apple data points, here, I used candlestick generally use a line chart. But anyhow, here the prices are below 280 and the maximum price I could see here is 280 and I say even if you have as many data points as you could see on screen, which are more than 30 years of data, still, I say this is just a sample, but not a population, because in future, The price might go above 300 also. So you are this particular line sort is not representing all the prices that belongs to Apple. It only represents sample, sample set of the prices that belongs to Apple until today. For that very reason, you can't directly use this equation with con. Evidence to represent volatility. But there are other ways, right as we actually that's the whole idea of having this discussion. The standard method that we use only represents a part of the price, but not the whole population. For that very reason, we have different estimators. So from now on, we are using the terms estimator because there is no true measurement to volatility, but there are estimators you can estimate where the volatility could be, and there is no reason why you need to accurately measure volatility, because the particular number doesn't mean anything until you contextualize it. Let me try this with an example. Let's start with the estimator for this. We will also share a Python code for you to use this equation so that it would be easier for you to measure volatility. But as of now, this is how this equation is structured. This is called Parkinson estimator, where it uses three data points. The first data point would be capital N, total number of data points you have. The second one would be high of the data point, and third one would be low of the data point. So what does it mean, right? If I have daily data, if I have 10 days of data, let's say n would be 10 and h would be high of each single day, high of the day and low of the day. So this particular equation is used to calculate or estimate the volatility, more commonly using a daily price. If you have a daily price data, and you can actually take summation of each loan of high and low, and then that with this particular equation, will give you the volatility. But I know it's it's not that easy to, let's say I have one year of data, which is 252 data points. It's not that easy to do this calculation here, maybe in an Excel or with hand. That's why we have a notebook, which we will go through probably in an hour. So this is an estimator, if you observe so far, it's pretty common to use standard deviation of log returns. If I could go back the very first equation we had. This equation is just considering close prices right to take standard deviation of returns. You just need close prices to measure this. But for better accuracy, we lean on the methods or estimators that take more than one data point. Here it is, taking high and low of the day. In general, we only take close price and calculate returns and move it. But since we are taking double the data points, the error of this particular approach would be less than the previous approach, where we are using standard deviation of returns, that's where this estimator has a greater precision, which is, again, this is a common logic. If you have 30 days of data, you're using 60 data points. Instead of just close. You're using high and low. But this is no way the best method, because there is no best method for volatility. There are only better methods, right? For example, this particular method, if you could spend a minute on it. Maybe. Let's just understand the fundamentals of volatility. Let me actually go through the chart again. I will just show you some interesting observation.

Speaker 1  13:32  
Let's go to candlestick chart, English. Take a Apple itself. So if you could observe, maybe, let's take this particular one. What happens when there is a volatility, volatile day in general. You see these kind of a VIX, right? There is an extremely high Vic, but then market closed again. This is a volatile day. But there is one more interesting thing that is happening between this day and this day. The market closed here. I'll just mark for your Yeah, this is where the market closed and market opened here. So there is a gap between previous days close and today's open. So if I'm only considering high and low of the day. I'm actually only considering what happened when the market is open, but if I only consider high and low of today or yesterday, I'm not considering what is happening between the days. Essentially, what I want to say is we are not considering overnight volatility. We are only considering volatility with the market open. So this is one of the disadvantages of using or any kind of an estimator that just uses high of the day or low of the day, because fundamentally, volatility can happen anytime, right? Volatility? What? What are the sources of. Volatility, maybe a major change in geopolitics or from talking about, let's say US markets, any major change in forex, or any major change with respect to interest rates or macroeconomic data, etc, that happened post market hours or during overnight hours also could increase volatility, right? And that shows up when the market opens, whatever volatility that is there overnight that day that we are not measuring, if we consider only high and low of the day. For that very reason, if you use this Parkinson estimator, even though you are considering more data points, you are only better when compared to previous approach, which is standard deviation of log returns, but still, you are not considering what is the volatility that included to the market overnight so far. That's why this particular estimate is biased low. What does it mean? Right? It means, for example, if the true volatility should be one, this particular measurement would might show you 0.81 What does it indicate is it is actually not showing you the complete value. It is only showing 80% of the value. That's why, for better and better estimation, using Parkinson, it's ideal to take more and more data points. So you can see this table where, when 10 days data points were used, the division of parkinson volatility and true volatility, 0.81 what does it mean? Is, when you take 10 days as input, your Parkinson only represents 80% of total volatility. But as you as you increase the number of days or the number of data points, the representation of volatility by Parkinson also increased, isn't it? And so this is one way we can actually make best use of parkinson just by using high and low but there are other ways also, if you want to just stick to Parkinson method, but still want to be more and more accurate, then there are other ways also. There is a way to calculate night volatility also. But let's spend some more time to understand how these two things differ. When I say two things, how day volatility and night volatility differs. In general, if you could divide the volatility into day volatility and night volatility, the degree of day volatility would be extremely high, because everybody trades, you and me trade, there is impact of change in sentiments over the day also the people can actually take positions and impact the market, but whatever happens overnight that is represented by gap ups or gap downs you see. So that's why this volatility, even though it is very less, but still, there is a substantial amount of volatility that can be measured. So if you are using Parkinson previously, when we are using standard deviation method, we had a distribution of errors. And currently the errors are a bit limited. In the previous case, the standard deviation of 0.4 now it is decreased to 0.023,

Speaker 1  18:16  
but still, still, you have some kind of an error that is still pending, right? See, not every time you're getting 0.3 sometimes you're getting 0.26 sometimes you're getting 0.36 but on an average, you're getting 0.3 so this is where you try to try to study different methods that are available. There are other methods, as you could see on screen, but it doesn't matter what estimator we use, because everything is just an estimator. There is no true. True is true measurement of volatility, or if there is no exactly right way to measure volatility, in this particular section, in OTS four, we are going to focus on Parkinson method. But there are other methods if you want to explore like government class is one method where, instead of taking two prices high and low, this particular method also uses open and close. Here the idea is simple, as many data points as you could like. If the data points are more, then it's given that your error will be less when it you're measuring the volatility. That's why this particular method was proposed using four data points per day. Then Roger, essentially is another method where, if you also want to use drift as one of the inputs to measure volatility, then you can probably fancy this. Then yazim is including jumps. So here the you can see the pattern. There is no right way, if maybe your approach or your way to trading, or your models you're using are considering drifts. Then in such case, when you use volatility, when you measure volatility, you might use this particular method. But let's say you. You are a retail trader, and your volatility measurements and also the models doesn't depend on jumps and drifts, then you might stick to Parkinson method. So the whole idea is, there isn't in a true measurement of volatility, and there are no true parameters you want to compare it with. But then how do we confidently move ahead right? If we are saying there is no right value of volatility, or there is no right method of volatility or a most accurate measurement of volatility, how are we so confident in picking up any method? It's about putting that in a context volatility is generally used when you consider the market to be extremely volatile or maybe not volatile, you just want to categorize volatility. So if you stick to a single method, then comparatively, you can say, I use this method, and today, my volatility is so and so, and you compare it with past volatility values and define whether we are in a high volatile scenario or low volatile scenario. That's how this is irrelevant to have an accurate method. It's about sticking to a single method and then comparatively demarking your particular market scenarios in the eyes of volatility. So let's try to understand more and more of these misconceptions, right? Because there is always a discussion, we would want to use range based estimator, like Parkinson estimator. Because some people might say, I don't touch Parkinson estimator because it is not considering what is happening overnight. But some people, some traders, might argue it's better to use Parkinson estimator or any range based estimator, because the volatility is induced by traders when the market is open. So why don't we just consider those methods? So both are different approaches, or both are different discussions or debates on what method to use, but both are wrong, because the fundamental idea is it's not about where you use this volatility. It's always about how are you going to use this measurement? You can use any method, take any measurement, but still come up with the same categorization. I'll try it with an example, but to spend more a second more on this misconception. It is like measuring temperature, isn't it? It doesn't matter what method to use or what you need to use for the measurement of temperature. It's always about how we are going to put it into use. That's where it's implementation comes in, for example,

Speaker 1  22:40  
just to keep this fundamental idea, solve it. You can use any method, but it's just that stick to a single method and then use it. You can also use average of multiple methods. In fact, I'm going to give you a Python code. We're going to discuss different methods, like all the methods we discussed today, will be added in a single Python code, and we'll go through it and revise there again. But you can use any method, and that method, you need to stick to it, because you can't use this different method for forecast and different method for measurements, right? If you are using Parkinson for measurement, use the same thing when you are driving your forecast. Also use the same thing when you are generating volatility traits as well. For example, there is always this discussion again, if more data is what you need to have a more accurate volatility measurement, why don't we use a high frequency data? This is just a funny thought we would get in general, because nowadays it's very easy to get high frequency data, so even for stocks, it is easy. But if you believe it's costly to get for stocks, maybe you can do this exercise by taking crypto data right? It's easy to get crypto tick data and high frequency data, which is given by many exchanges for free. But even here, for example, if I am considering SNP 500 and picked a stock, let's say Apple or let's say I picked Indian market stock, let's say tmpv or SBA, any kind of a stock, even if I could get high frequency data, I don't know what happened overnight, isn't it? Because even this high frequency data is generated when the market is open, post market hours or pre market hours, whatever happens that is not being tracked by these tricks. So it doesn't solve your problem completely, but this is one method people generally use to kind of be confident on the methods they're using. Before we go to the equation, let me show you this example on the chart itself. So let me just write down few things so for volatility measurement. Inputs are HIGH look like I'm taking high of the day and low of the day as input. So essentially, this is a range based volatility estimated. So I'm talking about any estimator. I'm not only talking about Parkinson, but even in the terms of Parkinson, we are using high and low as inputs, so you have a range mesh ratio method. So what people suggest is, this is

Speaker 1  25:39  
okay, let's just keep this and let me just take a copy of this. So imagine this is what happens when market is open. But how do you measure overnight volatility? How do you measure when market is not open? So you can actually take a copy of this and edit it so when market is closed, you can give for the same equation. You can give previous stay closed and current loops. If you give previous days close and current is closed as input, then you can measure volatility when market is closed. And if you give high and low as input, then you can measure volatility when the market is open. Considering these two, you can come up with a volatility number. I'm going to show you how this is coming. As you could see on screen, you can use closed open range estimator also, for example, in the same example we had, you can actually consider this phrase as close to current open. You can come up with a range like this, because this is the period, for example, from here to here, right? This is what is overnight. Means whatever is happening in the overnight is represented by an action between previous days closed and two days open. So if you consider this as a range, then you get a overnight volatility. If you consider daily high and low as a range, then you get market volatility or intraday volatility. So using these two, you can use this equation, which essentially gives you the volatility considering overnight moves and intraday moves, and is actually a simple expression of how we can cultivate these two volatilities. For example, teacher is nothing but the number of hours the market is closed. Ti is number of hours market is open. For example, if your market is open for six hours, then this would be six, and capital D would be 24 and t zero would be 18, and T would be 24 so this gives you, this is actually a variance. Total variance would be a weighted sum of variance overnight and variance in internet. So this will kind of tell you what happened during overnight and but still, whenever you have a high frequency data, don't just take data like a minute data or a tick data to measure volatility. It doesn't help you anyway, because see, over the smaller time periods, or a tick period, most of the volatility is because somebody added a big bid, or somebody added a big ask. Maybe there is some big seller that day is coming once every 10 minutes, and market will generally move up and down. So this kind of a measurement using high frequency data doesn't actually represent true volatility. So if I am an intraday trader, I am considering about daily volatility, then I might as well consider daily data as input. If I am a high frequency data and I am measuring high frequency volatility, then I might fake high frequency data, but it doesn't mean that if you have high frequency data, you have more and more accurate measurement of volatility. It's not like that. We need to understand where we are using these measurements. This is all an introduction to how we are going to measure volatility, because I know these will these will give you some kind of a fundamental idea. But if you want to really put these things in use, you stick to one method, which is Parkinson method. So let's understand forecasting also. Let's get an idea. Maybe I'll just show you the Python code, and then we go for forecast, because forecasting is a separate concept altogether.

Unknown Speaker  29:47  
What happened to this? Let me just have a look.

Speaker 1  29:55  
Okay, I believe this is on. So. So this is the method, or this is the notebook you have recently, there is a minor change in your finance for that very reason. I'm sure LMS, in LMS, you have an updated one. But even if you don't have just try to use close instead of adjusted close whenever you have yahoo finance related code. But let's, let's start from the beginning. So so far, I'll just give a review of what we discussed, but also kind of show you how you can use this Python notebook. So so far, we have been discussing on volatility, and the very basic method to measure volatility is volatility as a standard deviation of log returns. This is pretty common to use in finance, but the main problem with this approach is it may not completely or accurately represent the real volatility you and me talking finance, because we only have sample of a data at any point. We don't have complete population. But anyhow, if you want to consider that particular approach, there is a function that was created calculate volatility. So these are used yaw finance to get our prices. So this is a simple function where, if you input any stock price or stock ticket and start date and end date. It's going to calculate volatility in this particular time period, for example. Here is an example. So here I gave a symbol, APL, a start date and an end date. And if you just call the function, calculate volatility with these inputs, it's going to calculate volatility and give a print. So this is a standard method we have been using. But to get better accuracy or closer to representation of what volatility you only speak about, you need to start using estimators. That's where we introduced Parkinson estimator. This particular estimator, this is the equation you guys have already seen, where it takes three inputs. The one input is total number of data points you're using. The other one would be the high of the day and low of the day if you are using daily prices. So if you consider this equation. This is going to give you estimation of volatility, for example. Let's see how it is implemented in Python. Let me just refresh this. Yes, so I've given a particular function, which is calculate Parkinson volatility. So this, you can also create this I just created for a simpler use, but this, again, same approach. It just takes the same equation we have been discussing. So we have seen an equation here. The same equation are created here, but it's just that this comes in a function where, if you do the stock symbol start and an end date, it automatically calculates the volatility using Parkinson method. Is just giving an issue again. Let me actually check this. Yes.

Speaker 1  33:38  
I guess there is a minor issue here. Okay, now you got it. So essentially, what we are seeing here is, if you use this method and give the stock symbol, start date and end date, it will calculate and give you the volatility. But if you see it is 1.12% previously when we calculate using this method, which is standard deviation of return, we got 1.252 but when we use Parkinson method, we got 1.12 as we discussed earlier, this is going to give you volatility estimate, but it is going to by the bias look, this point is important, because in OTS five, when we actually compare multiple trades, this is going to come into discussion again. So when we have 1.12 this represents the volatility of Apple within this credit. So let's go back to our lecture. So

Speaker 1  34:45  
yes. So so far, we discussed how to measure volatility, but now let's try to understand how do we forecast volatility? Right? Because if you are a volatility trader or an options trader. Or if you want to take trades based on volatility, one thing you need to understand is how volatile the markets are at this moment. That is important. But it's all about how the volatility is going to be in future, isn't it? Because you're going to always talk about the expiry date, if a stock is or if a contract is expiring within a month, and if you are taking positions for expiration date, then you need to know what could be the volatility on expiration because that is most of the times that is more important than what is volatility right now, for example, if you could forecast saying in the next month the volatility is going to be high, then you can actually strategize whether to go long with a straddle or go short with a straddle as An example. So with that context, let's try to understand, how do we forecast volatility? What are all the methods that are standardly used? And then we will see what are the methods in general quantitative traders, or algorithm traders use. So to put it in context, once you are able to measure what volatility is, the next step is to focus where it will be, right? So, for example, a pretty common method is rolling window method, for example, let me show you. This is a 30 day rolling volatility method. You must have seen what a moving average is. You must have seen a moving average. If I could show you here. Let me take your stock. Yes. So it's pretty common to take moving average of prices, right? Let me show you a moving average. So

Speaker 1  37:08  
so it's pretty common for people to use moving average, because the prices will go up and down continuously. So if you have a moving average, then you can see what is the trend. For example, this represents nine day moving average. A pretty common one is 100 day moving average. Let me plot that. So if I have 100 day moving average, I can generally understand what, how is the current price compared to 100 days ago. And that's where you have a it's called Moving Average because it takes the reason 100 data points and tells you where our current price would stand with respect to price 100 days ago. Now, same approach can also be taken for volatility, because if I could have an average of last 100 volatile points, then I can easily say the next point also would be closer to this. Let me show you with example. If you could see this, this represents 30 days volatility, 30 days rolling volatility of Netflix. People generally use this 30 day volatility to forecast or to kind of predict how the volatility could be in the future, in next 30 days. But there is an issue with this. I'll show you the issue and also tell you where this issue stemmed from. You can see there is a sudden spike in volatility. Within a single day, the volatility almost doubled. It went from 0.3 to zero, point above 0.6 but surprisingly, there is a crash in volatility as well. Volatility almost halved within a month. Let's see what had happened. So since the volatility is calculated from price, let's see what happened in the price itself. In the price and the beginning of Feb of 2021 there is a spike in Netflix. There was a increase in price by about 18% 15 to 18% price jump was there. And after that, price eventually came down. And then you could see the drop in prices as well. So there was a jump, and then gradually the price came down. But if you see volatility, there was a sudden spike in volatility, and then volatility sustained higher. Then there is a drop. This happened because of the method we used, which is 30 day rolling day volatility. Let me actually show you the calculation as well. So if you could see here, this particular column represents the returns there was this single day, there was a 15% spike in price. For that very reason, it went from 501 to 586 and since we are taking rolling standard deviation of these returns to measure wallet. Validity, you see a jump in standard deviation of returns as well. Basically, you see a jump in volatility as well. But if you want to use 30 days measurement of this as a representation of forecast for the next 30 days, you see this higher price, isn't it? So to show you again, because there is a sudden jump in the price, and you're using the price to calculate returns, and eventually standard deviation of returns to measure volatility. Whenever you use 30 days volatility as you forecast, after you see the jump for the next 30 days, this value is being used, so you see a higher price. And on 31st day, you ignore this, and you consider the recent 30 days. That's why you see a crash. This is no way a right way to represent volatility, because this is an important phenomenon, a rise in volatility, or a crash in volatility, or maybe increase in forecast or a decrease in forecast will eventually ask you to either short an option or buy an option. So if the positions are moving like this, this is no way practical, and this is actually difficult to trade as well. So for that very reason, you shouldn't take 30 days volatility. You can't take average of last 30 days, and consider that could be your forecast. You should be more nuanced. For that very reason, you can actually take exponential weighted moving average. This is one easier way to resolve this problem. I'll show you this example with the price. Here you can see weighted moving average, the 100 day weighted moving average. Let me try to add exponential moving average as well. Let me show this with a different color. Yes. So as you could see,

Speaker 1  42:00  
the green line indicates both. Represents moving average. The blue line indicates weighted moving average. What does it indicate is, if I'm taking 100 points, I use same weightage to all 100 points, but what if, if I give more weightage to the recent data points. This is an idea behind using an exponential moving average. What it indicates is, if you give more weightage to the recent data points, because essentially, whatever happens the recent will impact your price and volatility the most for that very reason, mathematically, instead of taking giving same weightage to all 100 past data points, if you give more weightage to the recent data points of 100 and less weightage to the past data point, then you can represent the market budget. With that idea, a similar idea, people use it to represent forecasted volatility. So the way, more recent abbreviation, more heavily, so the effect of jump sub sites. So previously, we gave more weightage, like equal weightage to all past data points. That's way that jump in prices or jump in volatility, sustained for 30 days. But if you use this exponential weighted moving average method, where the current variance is a sum of the most recent variance, and also there is a residue which is returns in the previous day. For example, here, the lambda is between 0.9 to 0.99 so this particular equation will tell you, the more weightage is given to the more data point, the more recent data points, and that actually subsides the impact of the jump we have seen this again, an introduction to what we do with guards model, because even guards equation also looks the same, not exactly the same, but this is the same thought process. If you have a volatility, you might want to give more weightage to the recent data point. So with that equation, you see volatility of Netflix represented like this. Previously, there was a jump, and then it sustained higher and there was a crash. But now, since we are giving more weight more and more weightage to recent data points, there was a jump in volatility, but it slowly came down for next 30 days. It didn't crash like it did crash the previous time, and this is more tradable. If my forecast gave a higher volatility and I took a position. I don't want the volatility to crash within the next single day, right? But this is more and more approachable and tradable as well. So this is where we are going to come back to the main discussion here for forecast, which is GARCH model. So GARCH model is a GARCH is a family of. Equations, right? There are different equations. GARCH one, comma one. GARCH two, comma one. If you I'm not sure if the econometric class was already done, but I think at this point of the batch, already, we would have had some kind of an introduction to econometrics, where you had AR model, ma model, ARMA model, etc. GARCH is one of the econometrics models where it is essentially used to measure the deviations or volatilities. You use ARIMA model, sarima model, etc, to forecast prices, but GARCH is essentially used to forecast volatility itself. So I'm going to spend probably 510 minutes on characteristics of volatility before we actually go and discuss guards. Because I know this looks like an equation that should be remembered, but you don't actually need to remember this equation if you understand how this particular GARCH equation is created. So let me show you. Let me write some notes for you.

Speaker 1  46:09  
So as we more and more discuss on intuition to build when we trade options or options volatility, you need to understand there are few characteristics of volatility, which I'm going to note it down and discuss. So the first one is volatility clusters, then volatility

Speaker 1  46:50  
so these are essentially the patterns you see in volatility, or the characteristics of volatility. If you could understand this, then we can discuss on GARCH model, or else it doesn't directly make intuitive sense to just remember the equations or follow any Python code. But the very first reason, other very first characteristic, is volatility clusters. When we say volatility clusters, let me show you a common example. Maybe let's just see vix right? VIX is a pretty standard way to see volatility. Let me take five years chart of Wix try to understand what's happening here. If I could show you the plot of Wix, VIX is nothing but volatility of s, p5, 100. So this is how the US market volatility is. I have taken the last five year values, if you could observe. This is different from the prices we generally see, or the chart we generally see for prices. For example, here, if I show you the prices, let me actually keep it clean. You see, there is a trend in prices in it. If I take apple, let's take apple, since we've been discussing Apple, if I take five years data of Apple, this is the last five years data of Apple, and I see there is a strong trend. The price is started here, and eventually there is an uptrend, which made the price to go up from 127, to about 255, this is how price moves. But when it comes to volatility, you don't see those kind of trends in volatility. But only thing you see in volatility is clusters. For example, here, the volatility clustered between 15 and 20. This is a low volatile phase. Then you see is increase in volatility. And for quite an amount of time, the volatility stayed between 20 and 30. This is a high volatile phase. And then again, there is a crash in volatility and fire quite a long time from 2023, to 2025, most of the times the probability stayed between 15 and 20, which is a low volatile phase. Then again, you see a spike in volatility. So here you see clusters of volatility, isn't it? This is one of the important characteristics of volatility, which is volatility clusters, the second one being volatility mean rewards. This is again, whenever we see, for example, I the current value is 20.60 if you see in the past, in the last five years, there are many scenarios where the volatility is 20.60 it's not about the current value. The volatility has a characteristic of main diversion in the sense volatility always goes up, comes back to mean, and then it just moves around the mean. Here I could see mean is about 20. It may not be accurately, right, but if you take 20. Will consider 20 as mean price, or the volatility always moves away from mean and get back to mean, and then moves away from mean and comes back to mean. So there is a characteristic of volatility, which is a mean reversion. You would also see these characteristics in price, but most of the times price trends, or in the longer term, you see price trending away from mean. But even in longer term, in a fast five years of data, you see volatility is just mean reverting. For that very reason, a surprising pattern is any volatility value I see right now would have already been reached in the long, long past, even the current volatility five years ago, I see same volatility value. These are all the observations that are going to help you to kind of understand what a gartz model is. So the last one being volatility depends on recent returns. So this is again, let's say there you you're seeing an extreme crash in the market. Right market has crashed heavily in the last two days. Let's say then you see a different behavior of volatility compared to a normal market condition. For example, if I could take apple so few days back, there was a spike in volatility in apple. There is a change in behavior in Apple, because you see, for quite a few days, market didn't move anywhere. It just sustained here.

Speaker 1  51:31  
Then after that, there was some news that I actually moved the market, the global market, indeed. And then there was this news on anthropic and other things that are actually pushing the IT related stocks. You see that quite a lot in IT related stocks. More than Apple. This is just still a shadow what's happening in it. But essentially there is a shift in the market. Previously, market was just sustaining here. There was lots. There is a different kind of volatility. There are Vics, etc. But then when there is a good movement in the market, you see there are bigger candidates that are forming, then you see a different kind of volatility. Where I'm leading is depending on how price moved in the recent time, the way the volatility in the market also changes. These are all the three key characteristics of volatility, or the patterns you see in volatility. But then how did the theory evolve from this? This is where your GARCH equation comes in. As you could see, in the GARCH equation, there are three elements. I'm sorry, there are three elements, alpha, beta, gamma, you can see so if I could read out the equation, it says variance equal to gamma of capital V. Capital V represents long term variance plus alpha of the square of previous days returns when I when I just consider t minus one is just the previous time periods returned, and beta of previous time periods volatility. So why is the equation the way it is? It is because of these characteristics. Let me dissect, as you know, we have a characteristic called volatility clusters. So what does it mean is, if today, the market is extremely volatile tomorrow, also it would most certainly be extreme volatile phase, because volatility doesn't shift from high volatile phase to row volatile phase just like that. It slowly evolves, and it stays in that particular phase for quite a extended period of time. For that very reason, in the GARCH model, one of the element is dedicated to this behavior, which is volatility clusters. Hence, this equation suggest the current volatility is a function of previous days volatility. If previous days volatility is high, that is contributed to today's volatility, if previous days volatility is low. Again, that is being reconsidered for today's volatility. So that is point one. The second one being, volatility depends on recent returns. This is any another way to look at it? Is it just represents the current market conditions. For that very reason, the previous day's returns are also a part of your garage. One comma, one equation, the third one being volatility mean rewards this we have seen the current volatility value would have already been reached in the past. That's why the current variance also has this equation also depends on the past variance. So to read it, probably to explain it in English,

Speaker 1  54:45  
these three variables, the long term variance, the previous day's returns and previous days volatility. A combination of these represents current volatility, or if I have to forecast what is a volatile. Validity tomorrow. If I'm forecasting for tomorrow, then I'll consider today's volatility, today's returns and long term variance. All these three will actually help me to forecast the future volatility, but this is, again, a mathematical approach. How do we do it? I have a Python notebook ready for you guys to use this in a simpler form. But if for your knowledge sake, in general, whenever you have a acrometric model like this, there are these variables, alpha, beta, gamma, these things, we need to figure out what these are, isn't it, whenever an equation is introduced, an acrometric equation is introduced, it is going to give you a model that represents the characteristics of what you're trying to forecast. If I'm trying to focus price, my equation wouldn't be like this. It would be very easy. I might have an sarima model or ARIMA model or an MA model, etc. Since I am forecasting volatility, this equation kind of encompasses the characteristics of volatility, but we have to decide, or decipher what these variables are, alpha, beta, gamma. The standard way to do it is, you would have seen it in acrometrics. Every model will have its own likelihood method, but you need to come up. You need to consider the likelihood equation and substitute different alpha beta gamma values, whichever alpha beta gamma combination gives you maximum output. That is your combination of alpha beta gamma. I know it sounds a bit complex, but we'll get to a practical way to use this, but in theory. In theory, if you want to know alpha beta gamma value of GARCH, a standard method is to take this particular equation, use different alpha beta gamma values in this, and then note down all the volatility or variance values you're getting and keep on substituting in this, and whichever combination is giving you maximum value of this equation, that is your alpha, beta, gamma combination, but that is done programmatically. Nobody does this using hand for example. This is also a likelihood equation that is used for GARCH. This is actually more used because it is easier to convert your solution with that, but keeping all these ahead. Trader doesn't generally do that. I'm going to show you how traders use it. Also, in general, traders use historical values or assume some values within a range. For example, check these four different indices that represent us market. So one is doe Jones index, and this is NASDAQ. This is a nifty fan, sorry. SMP, 500 so all these values, if I had to use this likelihood method, and these are the values for five years, one, 2017 to 2022, if I'm using this index, and then consider gamma, alpha, beta, gamma values, I would have got these particular values. So you see these are not exactly same for different indices. But it doesn't matter, because essentially, if I use those values and forecast, you can see the forecast are exactly show doing what it's supposed to do. So I'll repeat what this experiment is. These are the values that are calculated for the past data of these four indices that represent us markets, irrespective of having different alpha, beta, gamma values. If I try to forecast 10 days, 15 days, 20 days, or until 50 days. For those four indices, you can see we were able to forecast the trend properly. So this actually tells you it's not about accurately knowing what this alpha, beta, gamma parameters of particular GARCH model is. For example, traders generally follow this method. So traders, if I have to know alpha, beta, gamma value, they assume an alpha between 0.01 to 0.1

Speaker 1  59:09  
they assume a beta between 0.9 to one. This is a fairly good assumption, because even if you calculate you were going to get it within this range, but if I have to go back to our equation again, this should hold true. For GARCH equation, the sum of alpha beta gamma should be one, so you assume different alpha beta gamma values. If you have an assumption for alpha and beta, you can calculate gamma and substitute in this and move ahead with your assumption. I'm going to show you how these calculations are done as well, but for now, as the understanding of theory, this is how traders use it. But as I was saying, even if I'm going to show you how to do this using Python, but as I was saying, even if you have this calc. Ready with you, unless you really put it in context. For example, if somebody told you I have a I got a score of 14 in a sport, but it doesn't matter whether you got 14 or 100 until you really tell what sport you're playing. For example, if you're playing cricket, getting 14 is not a big deal. But if I'm playing football or a soccer then it is an amazing score, isn't it? So you need to put this thing into context. So this is how people try to put this thing into context. I'm going to give you this example where, if you want to understand what is your current volatility value, you need to kind of compare it with range of different volatility values across the history. If you see here, if I am forecasting volatility value I did for 20 days, 40 days, 6080, and 100 Days, this fee is going to tell me, for example, if my current volatility is 0.9 and if I compare with different ranges, 20, day, 4060, 80, 100, and since my value is 0.9 I can see in all the ranges I never saw 0.9 maximum was 0.89 this tells me whatever forecast I got is actually representing an extremely high, volatile scenario. That means I am forecasting the market to be extremely volatile. On the other hand, let's say my forecast is less 0.2 then I can see, okay, in 20 days, my 0.2 is just 25th percentile. So maybe I'm forecasting a lower same thing when I consider 40 days and 60 days also in all the scenarios. If I had to properly understand what is my measurement or what is my forecast, I need to kind of understand what context it fits in. So I take different days, a, 2040, 6080, 100, or any kind of different time periods, and try to understand whether I have a high volatile phase or a low volatile phase. So just to show you an example, I Yes. So I'll just go to the top again last time we were discussing how we are calculating volatility using the basic standard deviation approach, then we have seen Parkinson estimator approach,

Speaker 1  1:02:28  
and then we discussed exponential weighting average method, right? If you remember, we had this discussion where we were trying to understand what happens if we use a direct 30 day volatility approach, and we realized this is going to result in a sudden jump in volatility. That's why we approached with exponential moving average, where you have a lambda term that is assumed between 0.9 to nine, nine, it will give you smoother volatility, so that you also have this in your LMS, in the same notebook where you give your stock, I have a function that is given here. It just uses exponential moving average method, the same equation you have seen on PPT here, I've added so if you give these values and assume some kind of an alpha lambda value, then it's going to give you a forecast. So, so far, we discussed how to measure volatility using standard deviation and also Parkinson method. But next step is to forecast. If you have worked to forecast, then you can use, either use this exponential weighing AVERAGE function, or you can also use GARCH equation. So the same equation you have seen, gamma into alpha, beta, all these particular variables that you have discussed, and the same equation we are using here. And as we discussed in practice, you assume alpha to be between 0.01 to 01, and beta to be anywhere between 0.9 to one if you have this, this particular function of calculated gamma, because we know the relation between alpha, beta, gamma and substitutes in the GARCH equation you have seen here, the same equation we have been discussing. It's going to substitute in that equation and going to forecast volatility for you so you can actually use this particular notebook and see for different methods. I tried it for daily. I tried it for monthly also. But I kind of feel that this is a way to actually calculate instead of using an Excel or using a pen and a paper. Let's take a short break here. Chris put all your doubts, whatever doubts you have. But as I said, this is just kind of an intro to volatility trading, because now we are going to use all these methods we have discussed so far because volatility trading, the very first step would be understanding what is the current volatility value, and then. Putting it into context, then we can think, Okay, now I'm in a low, volatile market. Now, how would I strategize? Some kind of an option strategy so that we are going to discuss, let's take finite break, and we'll be back within finalnet and continue this. Meanwhile, any doors to.

Speaker 1  1:10:11  
Hi everyone, let's go through questions. Jesse young asks, What strategy is it when you started to capitalize on realization implied volatility. I can't remember whether or not they diverge or work in tandem. Yeah, Jesse, we are going to discuss that strategy pretty soon. In this very class. We are going to discuss how we are going to take imbalances in relation implied volatility and then how to strategy, is it? But, yeah, it's not about straddle or a strangle. You can also just take up a single naked option and then sell it and buy it also, because, essentially, you want to capture what's happening with volatility, right? But we go with the straddle or a strangle because to nullify a directionality and then just to focus on volatility. But we're going to discuss that as we move forward. Shreyas Madan, why is Vx forward looking for next 30 days? Shreyas VX is actually that, fundamentally, the structure to be forward looking. VIX is nothing. But what is a volatility of SNP 500 in the next 30 days? So that's how it is forward looking. And it doesn't tell you obvious the volatility right now. It just tells you what market feels the volatility within next 30 days. So it is given, given the way that is structured. It is forward looking. Shares, or Madan also says, came from non coding and non quant background. Could you please walk me thread better through logic behind Python codes using a recent trading example that would really help me visualize? So yes, this particular Python notebook is just a supplement, but I'll I'll just talk to support and maybe set up a call with you. I'll let them set up a call with you so that, because it takes an hour at least to go through line by line. But still, I understand, since you're from non coding background, maybe after this class, when you get time, try to run the Python code. But I'll, I'll make sure somebody sets up a call with you so that you'll understand everything out of it. But before that, I request you to at least go through the notebook once when you get time, and then we would have a continuous call, maybe if you have any doubts on it, or if you want somebody to handheld you on that particular notebook that can be arranged. And Shubham asked, How can we connect this to real time trading? So when you have very good question when we are talking about real time trading, right? The very first one is, how do we use this for real time trading? So let me show you, if you are talking about how the notebook this fairly simple. I am using historical data here. Whenever I am using our finance and calculating using historical data, but real time trading, you you can actually use the same notebook, same approach, because you don't calculate or measure volatility in midday, isn't it? You only use close prices. So you can actually use this in real time. You can actually use it because even if you use this particular method is going to take previous disclose. But if you are asking me, how is it used in real time trading, give me a moment. That's where we are leading to and you're going to get that answer. Let me see if there are any questions. Okay, I don't see any open questions. Let's continue. Let's try to understand how this particular trade is structured when you are only focusing on volatility. So we're talking about volatility trading. It's where we took break. And the very first thing you need to understand is, what are all the types of volatilities we are going to deal with, right? Maybe, let me type it out. Okay, you guys can see my screen. I realized historical volatility.

Speaker 1  1:14:35  
So we have had lots of discussions on volatility. Why don't you guys give it a try. Maybe take a minute. You guys can type it out. What do you think the differences between these three are? Because this is fairly important to know at this juncture to move ahead. Either you can type out the differences between these three types of volatilities, or you can type out the. Definition of any of these three types of volatility. Take some time type it out in the chat, and then I'll give my take on what these three different things are. Then we will move ahead with how to structure the trade with these three things in mind. So

Speaker 1  1:15:31  
okay, so that says historically is actual volatility, which happened, which is perfect heat my gear says historical is past. Volatility, re israelized is present. Volatility implies is future. Volatility heat, you are 66.67% right. You're right about historical and implied realized is a bit different. We are going to discuss that. Archit says historical volatility is a volatility that has been witnessed in the past. It is a definite value, perfect. Vishal says HV is volatility so far, IV is forecasted volatility and RV is actual volatility. Yes, Vishal is right. I guess Carlos, Manjunath, everybody is kind of answering a similar thing. All of you guys are right? There is a minor detail, which I guess Vishal also mentioned whenever we are talking about historical volatility. Yes, as the name suggests, it's about what happened in the history, what happened in the past. Everybody knows it. Nobody can make mistake with it, right? So this is just a past now. Now, what is implied volatility? Implied volatility is about future. This is where everybody does mistakes, because very rarely people predict future, exactly right? And as we add more and more predictions, future will change more and more. So implied volatility talks about future but then, why do we care about future volatility, right? Where do we actually see this? This you don't directly go and forecast what future volatility could be. Instead, this particular thing is visible when somebody is bidding for an option. Let me show you. It's been so long since we saw a price letter here. Option chain, let's check that. Let's go to SPX. Option chain, hmm, maybe let's take NSE option chain also, yes, let me take NSE option chain two. So whenever people are bidding for options, for example, I just took some random option chain where it has different contract names, different call options, and there are bids and asks right here. People are bidding for 4020 somebody wants to sell for 4044 when somebody is bidding for a particular options premium, they are maybe bidding it higher than the current market or lower than current market, essentially representing what how volatile this particular underlying contract could be. That's how people express their volatility. That's how they imply the volatility. That's why it is future volatility. If somebody wants to know how volatile this particular contract or underlying could be, they need to put in this particular premium in the Black Scholes equation and then solve it for volatility that is called as implied volatility. And we had discussed this in the park. Previous class also employed volatility. Is a volatility people express it to be in future in terms of this contract. So I hope you guys are 100% right about these two, the past and future. But it doesn't mean that realized volatility is present volatility. It might fit it in a context like this past, present, future, but this is not present volatility. Realized is volatility within a range, volatility within a time period. See, this is about what is the volatility that is realized within the time period? For example, if I'm talking about one options contract that expires in next one month, I might talk about implied volatility now, but after that one month, if I look back and then calculate how much actually realized, because maybe my implied volatility is 30, I don't know, maybe 12.

Speaker 1  1:20:00  
Percent. But after the contract expired, I'll actually calculate how much the volatility, how much realized volatility was, how much volatility was actually realized. If I'm doing this exercise, then I say there is something called realized volatility in a context of a contract that I'm discussing about. If you have a contract and a discussion and you're talking within a time period, then you have realized volatility. Or else there is no concept as realized volatility in discussion, generally, people say historical versus implied, or people use the same term for historical and realized. But that's the nuance thought you wish it would help you guys. Maybe if you go reading a book and somewhere realized and historical use interchangeably. That may not be exactly right. Anyhow, one way to look at is what people think the future volatility would be, and what exactly the volatility is, or what would be volatility from the eyes of options, which is implied volatility. What would be the volatility from the eyes of underlying contract, which is realized volatility? There are different ways to look at it. Anything that helps you to kind of get these things clearly you can take it. For example, why are we actually discussing about volatility trading? How are we going to make money with volatility trading. The answer is variance premium we have discussed in the last class. There is always a difference between implied volatility and realized. People are going to be expecting implied volatility, some sometimes higher, but when it comes to reality, the volatility is going to be lower. So this difference you have to capture. How do you capture when somebody is expecting higher volatility, the premiums are going to be higher, so you go ahead and short a contract, short any options contract, but you feel wait till expiry. Of course, at expiry, the calculations are done using realized volatility, or historical volatility, the settlement happens with realized volatility values, so you see a drop in premium. That's what you can capture. This is the fundamental idea. But ideas are always simple. When you think about execution, it becomes more complex. Let's try to slowly uncover the complexities and try to add more and more logic so that in future, when you're strategizing yesterday, trading approach, it comes naturally to you more than remembering stuff. Let's see what's happening here if somebody has to represent a trade, because it's very common practice for us. Whenever we are trading, we go to chat. It's quite common. People go to chart. If they want to buy here, they're going to draw a horizontal line here, and they're going to put a target. Maybe this is my target. If I see some buying, maybe I'll go to daily chart. I thought, okay, it fell a lot maybe. I thought, maybe I'll start buying apple. Then my next question is, Where will I sell? Maybe I pick a high and if I had to forecast my profit and loss, I will just measure how much gap it is from here to here. Is it? Yeah, so probably some 12% gap. So I'm, I'm trying to buy here to expected 12% profit. Now, how do you do when you're doing options, right? Because it's not always you can see in options, you can't directly pick a price level and say, my option contract will go there. Because you guys know it's not about price only. It's about volatility, it's about data decay and 100 other things. So for that very reason, how do you forecast or how do you study a trade? If I am doing a stock trading, it's easy for me. I say, okay, my this is my stop loss. This is my profit target, and I am expecting one is to four risk reward, or I'm expecting 12% raise. But when it comes to options, there is a different approach. So let's try to understand how that is done. If I am taking any options trade using volatility, my profit and loss is going to be represented by this equation. It is going to be a sum of, or I must say, a function of implied volatility. So my options premium when I'm considering implied volatility, minus my options premium when I'm considering realized volatility. This is the difference if I sold an options contract at $100

Speaker 1  1:24:45  
and I buy it back at $50 my pedal is 50. So what you are representing here is I have an options trade. I took an options trade, maybe at beginning of the month, and I held it till expiry. During expiry, i. Enduring expiry. The realized volatility comes into picture because contract expired. You know, the real numbers. So the difference between the premiums is what you're trying to capture now is there in another way to represent this? That's where you see this derivation, this again, and not a complete derivation, also, because in between there is a Taylor expansion that happened. But I'll try to kind of give an idea who had a bit of a higher engineering math background. But this is not important, important. But let's try to understand how you can use this equation, and kind of include a Greek so that it becomes an everyday thing for you to use, because this, what this represent is it's just a function of an implied volatility and premium of call. This is not practically usable. I can't directly go ahead and use it on paper. But if I come up with an error term or a residue term, which is implied minus realized volatility, and try to adjust this is, this is just a function, right? This is, don't take it as a multiplication. This is premium as a function of realized plus a residue minus premium as a function of realized. If I'm expanding through functions, I use something called Taylor expansion, and that essentially results in this particular structure. This is what you can actually use. This is a multiplication where you multiply Vega with the difference in this implied and realized volatilities. So let me actually write this equation. I'm sure last class I would have mentioned this at least. But the equation that you're going to see again and again is P and L is equal to Vega into implied wall minus realized. What this particular equation indicates is, if you ever take a volatility position, on an average, your P and L is going to be represented by this equation. If you calculate Vega of your position, Vega is nothing but the options Greek that represents volatility change its impact of volatility change on premium right, the difference between two volatilities, the implied volatility and realized volatility multiplied by Vega of your options position on an average, tells you how much money you're going to make. So this equation you're going to see again and again in this class and in next class, we're going to use some numbers to come up with some panels as well. But let's again, try to revise few things that are covered in notice two and three when it comes to volatility trading. And then we come back to this equation again. So to put it in context, whenever you're trying to capture what is happening in options just through volatility, there are few issues you're going to face. The very first issue is people are going to buy premium options. Maybe buy a call option or a put option. They spend some money, they pay the premium and they get the options. But whenever you're holding an option, its premium is changed by many things. Change in volatility, changes your premium, change in price changes your premium. Change in market sentiment changes your premium. Any major news that comes into the market also changes your premium. Many things changes your premium. But if you call yourself a volatility trader, and you believe I just want to capture the change in premium because of volatility, then you need to take some measures to mask the other factors. For example, the major factor, major factor that drives premium is price. So increase in price, if you have an increase in price,

Speaker 1  1:29:07  
call option shoots up, right? You would have seen this if there is an increase in break all option shoots up. But if you are a volatility rider, you need to make sure any changes in price will not impact your options premium. That is where you do something called as delta hedging. But right now, let's see, in general, wow, how this particular volatility trading happens. Then we are going to see how we are going to do it as a trader. This is just a simple example where, this is a simple example of hedging, where if you have a one year 100 call option, what does it mean you have an call option at a strike price of $100 but it is going to expire in next one year, and it is on a stock that is currently trading at $100 and it's vola. Reality is 30% if this is the context, and this particular call option is worth 11.9 $2 and the current delta is 0.56 in general, anybody who wants to hedge it, who doesn't want change in prices to impact their premium, just hedge it with respect to the Delta. If delta is 0.56 they buy just sell 0.56 shares so that any change in underlying will not impact their premium. Now, when the stock actually jumped to 110 you see the call option also jumped to 18.14 now what happens? You know, there is a change in delta. The delta change from five, six to six, eight, but out of this 0.68 you already hedge 0.56 of the delta, so no you keep on hedging the rest of the residue. Again, there is difference of 0.12 you hedge this, this example we have seen in the previous class, also where as an example of hedging, but without us realizing, if you keep on hedging any changes or like any profit or loss, you're going to get in this entire trade that is going to be driven by volatility. So without us actually planning to take a volatile trade, eventually, this is converting into volatility rate. So this is how, if you keep on doing this, if you keep on replicating that portfolio, it's just going to look like this, which is a hedged position. But in practice, people are never going to do this. At least majority of the traders are not going to do this particular type of trade where every time there is a change in price, you keep on hedging the Delta, because it's going to cost you a lot. It's going to be costly, it's going to be very difficult. You can't do this manually, even if you automated it. It's going to take lots of capital. Also, for that very reason, we are going to discuss different different methods to kind of smoothen this process. But at a theoretical level, this is a volatility trade. And if you want to know what is a profit of it, this is how you do it. You calculate, implied you calculate, realize, and on an average, your pendulum is going to meet this. So as I said, in OTS five, we have a trade examples where we actually take a pen and a paper and calculate this. I mean, we do it in Excel, though, but we are going to calculate this particular method and see on an average whether this actually becomes your theoretical profit or not. But now coming to more practical things right now, whatever variance premium or volatility trading we have seen that is just theory. In theory, people say, if you hedge your positions, then they are going to be a volatility trade. But in practice, that's not how you trade. I guess one of you guys are asking, I guess Jesse was asking, is the strategy? What is the strategy to actually capture this implied and realized volatility? So that's where we're going to we are leading to, but just to repeat couple of things, or just to revise few things. In the last class we discussed, there are always a I guess we are discussing OTS too. Most of the cases, the implied volatility is going to be greater than realized volatility. That's what we have seen it in the past. Also here you can see, for SNP 500 the implied volatility is greater than realized volatility,

Speaker 1  1:33:29  
but there are cases where it is the other way also. So not every single minute you have implied greater than realized, but most of the times, and we also seen, even at lower volatility levels, you're going to have the variance premium. So this is a pretty solid approach where you can confidently try to capture this particular difference. And we have also seen this particular table, which tells you, irrespective of where the market volatility level is, even, the market is at high volatile phase or a low volatile phase, there is always a premium for a trader to capture, because every single time, people are going to expect the volatility to be so and so the implied volatility, but in practice, the volatility is going to be realized. It's going most of the time it's going to be less than implied. So in this scenario, there are two, three different ideas we have seen. The very first one is going to be, how about if every, first of all, I'm just showing you a wrong approaches or a flawed approaches, but you and me going to brainstorm and come up with a more, better approach in this very class before the next break itself, and that's going to tell you how to create your option strategies by yourself. But now let's try to see couple of flawed approaches, which we already discussed in the last class or oth two. The first flawed approach is it's again, pretty common to think like this, if, if we believe every single day. The implied volatility is going to be greater than realized volatility. Why don't we just sell an option, any kind of an option. See if I'm saying implied is going to be greater than realized, I'm essentially saying if I'm pricing options now, I might price it for higher price compared to where it would expire. So why don't I just sell an option every single day to keep it more structured, instead of just saying option, why don't they sell a strangle because if I'm considering straddles or strangles, I would be pretty confident. I don't need to do any delta hedging already. My prices impact is hedged because I'm this is a volatility trade. So one simple idea is, what if we sell 10, Delta, Q, Q, Q, second, Manch triangles. What did it means is just, just the take the contracts that are expiring in next two months and their delta is 10, just, why don't I just sell these triangles? This was simulated, and this we discussed the last time. It looks good on paper, but still, you see extreme drawdowns here, almost 40% drawdown here, and then here, also, there is some 18 to 20% drawdown here. And also this here, we didn't conserve cause, and we didn't consider what happening in between as well. But this is one idea you got. The second thing what we did was, instead of doing strangles, why don't we do straggles, instead of using out of the money contracts, why don't we take at the money contracts and sell it? Even this might equity curve might look like this, but it's extremely important to understand. Just by looking at cumulative plots or equity curves. You can't just take any strategy live. This will actually gives you few risk patterns. Again, there is huge drawdown here, there is a huge drawdown here, and a huge drawdown here here, since we are taking for 10 years. It might not look extremely dangerous for you, but if you really dissect this into multiple areas, definitely it's going to be a risky scenario for so as an option trader, you can't take this trade every single day. Instead, you need to come up with the special cases where this particular approach is going to help you, that's where we are leading to.

Speaker 1  1:37:26  
So just to repeat, why does this premium exist? Because you need to think, you need to intuitively try to predict when this premium could exist. If I am saying implied is going to be greater than realize that tells that market is actually expecting some kind of a insurance to be provided to them. Let's say there are trade deals that are happening left and right across the globe, then definitely volatility is going to be high. Or, let's say another scenario where there are no wars being discussed and there are no unusual news that are being discussed, and market is pretty stable. In such case you don't have a premium. See, it's at a fundamental level. It's simple to understand whether the premium, why would a premium exist or not? Right? What if, if you only deploy these options volatility trading when there is a premium exist. What if, if you don't deploy when there is no premium? That's what our goal is for next 15 to 20 minutes, to reach to a position where try to intuitively understand when I should actually stop trading, or when I should start trading. So at a theoretical level, you know why a premium exists, right? People are afraid. People are people don't want to be put in a risky scenario. If today is Friday, and then if our market is going to open only on Monday, within these two days, any news that are that going to make the market gap up or gap down shouldn't adversely affect your position. For that very reason, people are going to edge their positions before the weekend. So we have seen all these examples. I am not going to repeat the same example, but try to give you a different example of same context where there are atypical events that are some people actually believe there are events that are bound to happen over the weekends that are going to move the markets right, even if they can't put their finger on it. Everybody is equipped to kind of handle a black swan event using hedging, because imagine their chance of this black swan event is very, very low, but if it ever happens, its impact is extremely high on your portfolio. It, it most of the traders actually relates to this, because if there was one scenario that impacts you very badly, it can wipe out entire year of your profit. That's what the blacks on event can that's how a Blackson event can impact you. Let me give an example. Let's say you have an extremely bullish opinion on a stock, abd. ABC, and you have longs, you just bought stocks with, let's say, 100k dollar. But what happens over the weekend? Some bad news according to maybe that could impact the industry or a sector or an economy, that would impact your stock, ABC, if you don't have your options, or don't have your open positions hedge, anything happens over the weekend that can give you a drawdown of maybe 30% 40% that takes at least a year for recovery. If a stock crashes within a day, more often than not, it takes months and months for it to recover. So for that very reason, premium would always exist. There are different this. We have discussed different ways how premium are represented. For example, we have discussed something called implied skewness, right where column whenever the market is falling, its behavior is different than whenever market is going up. So there are different ways where these premiums exist. And you can actually capture these premiums in a different approaches. But any approach you take, if you keep it as simple as I'm going to sell the options every single day and buy it during expiry, it's going to give you lots. Let me show you an example. Let me actually go back we have. I just want to make sure we didn't skip anything. So fear of a typical events and correlation risk these things we discussed the last time, the fear of unpleasant risk profile, etc. Because this is important, because

Speaker 1  1:41:36  
whenever you have a short position in options, point one, you need to have your margins ready. Point two, your losses are going to be unlimited. Options is a scenario where there is always a unusual risk profile, where if you have a long position, your profits are limited, limited to the premium you paid for and if you have a short position, I'm sorry, yeah, if you have a short position, your risk is unlimited. Whenever you have a short you receive your premium, and that's the maximum profit you get. But if the market goes against you, it can go, theoretically, it can go at any to any price, and you going to have unlimited losses. So for that very reason. And there is always a Skewness in premium that exists in the market. So basically, whenever you have a puts and you have calls, people who are going to short puts are going to capture higher volatility premium than people who are going to buy calls. So these are all common things that are there. And I would encourage you guys, probably, as an exercise, to go through this paper. It's a simple paper that explains a strategy that captures this implied skewness premium. But yeah, you guys can go through this, which is there in slide number 57 it's a it's an SSRN paper. So you don't even need to log in now. You don't need to pay anything to get this paper. It's a very short paper that tells you the strategy. More than a paper, it just implementation of this particular strategy, but out what you're going to learn it. I'm going to tell you in this class itself, but as an exercise, you guys go through it, but eventually any kind of a theoretical approach you're going to take with this continuous approach of shorting every single day is not viable. I'm going to show you what is a viable approach. So let's try to understand now that you know where the premiums exist, let's try to see in different asset classes, because I don't want to generalize this particular approach only to equity traders, because I am sure there are, there would be some fixed income traders in this particular batch, or there could be some commodity traders as well. So let's find a very short amount of time on how this premium plays on different asset classes before we move ahead with the trading strategy. So equity, everybody knows in equity, there is a variance premium. We have seen it, and it's easy to trade also, but the degree of variance premium is comparably a bit low most of the times, this variance exists on indices. Let me give an example, if I'm a trader, if I want to deploy an options volatility trading strategy on Apple, it would be there, but preferably, I would go and trade implied volatility trades on s and p5 100. The reason is, if there are, if there is an index, there would be lot many people that are going to take incidents on the market which is on the index. So there would always be more and more implied volatility on any index than equity. For that very. Is in on average, equities also display volatility premium, but it's just displays about half that of indices. And if you want to capture only on equities and go for small cap stocks, because there would be higher premium, because small caps always comes with a certain type of risk compared to large cap or mid cap. So that's one point. But when I'm trading commodities, this is an interesting bunch. I can't have a single theory for all different commodities, because maybe I would write it down. When it comes to commodities, there are agro commodities, agro commodities, then there is precious metals, then there are metals non precious metals, depends, right, like Depending on when within these also, there are many categorizations, maybe energy commodities, depending on what commodity you're trading, your volatility, premium or approach changes, because it's actually

Speaker 1  1:46:15  
there is a saying that is, You can trade equity with statistics, but you can't trade commodities with statistics, because commodities depends more on the feel of the market and also the knowledge, the detailed knowledge you have on the market. For example, if you are an extremely good crude oil trader, it doesn't mean you get as much as profit in sugar or copper, because the factors that impacts crude oil, and the way you read crude oil barrel reports is different to sugar, because sugar or corn, you need to know the weather reports. You need to understand how this particular crop responds to different patterns in weather. And then you need to combine the inventory report to understand how the volatility phenomenon is. But when it comes to crude oil, it is different. So just to summarize, there is volatility premium in all these commodities. But if you ask me, What about the other commodities? Right? Why are we discussing only on copper but not on gold? Where do we discuss with corn but not on beans. The whole idea is it's not that simple, because let me give you a practical example that because I had this experience as an intraday trader for London Metal Exchange. So while we were trading, every day we come to markets, we was in professional intraday trader. So every day, morning, I used to have my own opinion on the market, along with the levels it might reach. Accordingly, I used to change my positions, because we hold positions, even though you are an internet editor, maybe longer positions, you hold it for a week and shorter capital. You do intraday trading, and you change your biases also. So here how volatility perspective will change is just a matter of a single inventory report combined with a single currency report. When I am trading copper, I used to trade copper, aluminum, etc. I we always have to have an eye on what is happening with DX y, which is US dollar index. How strong or how weak the US dollar is compared to other commodities, is one thing we need to see. And the second one we used to continuously see is, are there any reports which are related to inventory of this particular commodity club being these two, we used to have an opinion on how volatile the market is. Sometimes, even though the market is extremely volatile, we used to feel that is not the volatile scenario, because we know with the current reports, the market could have been much high, volatile right? Could have been higher, volatile scenario. But right now, market is under reacting. So why I'm getting it is you can't just say just because volatility is greater than so and so value commodity is extremely volatile. No, every commodity will have its own high end, volatile phases depending on how market is pursuing it. It depends on the knowledge you have on the commodity. But if you ever want to statistically approach commodity trading for volatility, definitely you can go for copper, corn, all these kinds of commodities that are listed here. But if you want to tackle other commodities also, you might want to kind of gain more knowledge on the commodity, and then think about volatility trading. So same thing for other assets, like bonds. There is a variance premium in the bond, which is actually, again, it may not be as volatile as other markets, but we're not talking about how volatile this bond market is, right? We are talking about variance premium, the difference between the realized volatility and implied volatility. That is, again, there. And same thing with VIX, also. It's an interesting discussion. Is there a variance premium on VIX? Because there are contracts, isn't it? So there is a contract, there is a fixed contract, there is a volatility on fixed contract. So all these discussions, in general, if you had to summarize, any product will have variance premium. But you need to strategies, when to turn on your strategy and when to turn off your strategy. So let's take this example as a retail trader, if I am trading volatility, how do I turn on or how do I turn off my nobs, like, when should I actually go and sell a straddle or sell a triangle, etc, and when should I not trade at all? So let's start with this simple example of covered call. This particular strategy is widely used by retail traders because, sorry, yeah, this is widely used by retail traders because it's simply too simple to deploy. And more often than not, this is used to generate passive income. So the very first step you take for covered call is you should have a long position. You should have a long position in the underlying if you are trading commodities, or, let's say, if you're trading Apple, right, you should have a long position in your stock. On top of it, you go ahead and sell a call. You know, it might count on counter intuitive.

Speaker 1  1:51:13  
But instead of buying a put, you sell a call, right? So if you do this, for example, buy stock and sell $100 call for $3 what's happening here is you are selling $100 call and you are receiving $3 This is a passive income part of it. So this is how your particular payoff looks like. So until $100 Well, let's say the stock is at 100 and your call option, you sold it at $100 until $100 when the price goes up, you keep on making money, but you she will stop making money after $100 because you sold a call option here, that means you don't believe the price would go beyond 100. So you capture that particular amount of premium here, since you actually sold a call option, and since you believe you already have a stock with you. So whatever happens directionally, you're capturing here, but any change in premium you're capturing in this, this is a simple form of volatility trading for retail traders, because it don't need to open any complex straddle or a strangle initial step. Whenever you have a sell position itself, you're capturing premium. Here. You have your premium with you, and you are nullifying it with the stock you have. So whatever difference profit or loss you're getting is purely a volatility click. For example, you if somebody asks you, since I have a covered call, don't I want my stock to go up, definitely you want your stock to go up. But still, that is at the underlying level. When you have a call option, you already collected the premium, so half of your delta, or of your edge comes from option you sold, and half of your edge comes from the underlying asset you bought. So there is actually, there are different ETFs in US markets. Bxm is one ETF which tracks this particular strategy performance. So what it does is, if you have to take like 1993 to 2022 this is how this particular strategy worked, a covered call where you have a long position in underlying. The underlying in this scenario is s, p5, 100 and short position at the money as sell a call at the money and capture the premium. This bxm is a fund RMSA ETF that does this, that you should do it, and then its performance was 7.1 so if you just blindly go and buy this ETF, you're essentially creating a covered call, and you would have got 7.1% compared to SNP 509.4 so this is not a bad strategy, and it's it is less volatile than s and p5 100, their daily returns were and a bit of a better sharp and better drawdown. So this is one common strategy. As I said, this widely used by retail traders, but this is just a beginning of volatility trading. So you can actually strategize to harvest the volatility premium in the sense you can actually strategize to select the days when volatility premium is going to be high. So we're going to do this exercise now. So what I'm going to do is, let's try to study few rules, and then take a break, and when we get back, we are going to actually sit and do an exercise. So before that, let's study these rules. This rule. In fact, I mentioned this in OTS three, which is, it's common to common for traders to kind of say this, Vega wounds, gamma kills. This is a positive thing for an option trader. Let me tell you what I mean. So when we say Vega. Kills, sorry, Vega wounds and gamma kill. It just means that whenever you are having a volatility trade, you can it's okay to go wrong, because it doesn't create a scenario where you're going to lose most of your capital. Let me give you an example. I think, not sure if you have already discussed this, but let's see here. Let's just take some random example. Let me just take this Yes. So imagine you have a short position here. Let me drag this.

Speaker 1  1:55:42  
Yes. So let's say you have shorted in this, right? You're shorted a price. You're shorted apple. I'm talking about a scenario where you believe the stock will not go above this, and you shorted and it you shot it like this. I started making money, but suddenly spiked up. It spiked up. And this is a scenario where you would have got profit, but now you started making loss. And if you just keep it, keep at it, it keep on going up. And essentially it will kill you. In the sense, when I say it will kill you, it, it could actually go to 500 600 700 also, right, here is a scenario where 241 you shorted. It went till 226 and suddenly spiked up and keep on going up. So this is a gamma trade. This is a directional trade. Whenever you're trading direction, if you are wrong about your direction, there are more chances that you're going to have extreme drawdowns. But what happens when I'm talking about volatility? What happens? That's why people say Vega wounds. If I am talking about volatility. We have already seen there is a characteristic of volatility, which is volatility mean reverse or volatility clusters. So even though, if I'm wrong about volatility, let's say I thought this is an extremely high, volatile market, and I would short this market. And when volatility falls down, I would buy back so that I can capture some premium. This is okay. This is not as risky, because even if volatility spikes up and it goes or volatility goes up, we have seen volatility doesn't trend like a price, right? It mean rewards, and it comes back again. So momentarily it's going to wound your capital, but eventually it's going to rebound back, and then you're going to capture whatever losses you made, you're going to recover and then start making money. So this is theoretical and also absurd. Also, we're going to see some examples. So that's why people say volatility reverts. So it's reasonable to expect that an adverse more can cause vehicle losses to reverse. So even if you have a short position in option where, especially when you're trading volatility, it's okay. Sometimes you might have a wrong estimate, and volatility can go up, but eventually it's going to come down. But this doesn't give us a false confidence to keep on shorting the market and wait, because we can't wait forever. We have to close our positions when market experts or the contract experts right. So that's why let's study the rules now, let's study few rules and then strategies. The optimal way to approach this. For example, people are overpaying to avoid risk. What does it mean whenever you have a volatility premium? Last time we discussed, there are different rules or different scenarios where this volatility premium could come in. But on top of it, when would the premium would come down? Because if people realize we are paying more money for the risk initially, when the when it is a beginning of the month, you see lots of people opening options positions because they don't want to. They don't want their positions to be destroyed by the particular options move within the month. But as the month unfolds, the markets will settle. They will understand what kind of market we are in currently, and maybe the premiums also might come down. So in this example, let me write down, write down an approach. We're going to spend couple of minutes on it, and then we'll start the exercise. Let me so let's always start with the basic idea. I'm going to write idea. Idea is implied. EV is okay more than realized volatility, most of the times. Why don't I sell straddle and um. Let it expire when to sell straddle and capture premium. So imagine this is your idea. Your idea is theoretically IV is more than realized volatility, so why don't I just sell straddle and capture premium? So now how to deploy it in the sense how to deploy it and how to time it. Should I do it every day or every week or every month?

Speaker 1  2:00:40  
So these are the answers we are going to get. It just, I'll just give you a bit of an idea of your exercise. So what we think is, whenever you're talking about variance premium, you're talking about premium people pay to avoid or mitigate risk. So in this scenario, we're going to find a find a market condition where this premium would definitely exist. An example of it is weekend. What happens over the weekend? Why do you think there are more and more people opening options positions on Friday and closing it on Monday? Because people are more concerned what happens when there is a risk over weekend, everybody is concerned about risk overnight and they have their positions open and closed. That is pretty common, but this overnight risk would be increased when there is a holiday or market close, which is a weekend. So we are going to take a trade example. This is how we are going to do this exercise. We take a single trade idea, which is IV is more than RV, most of times. Why don't they sell straddle and capture premium? You can come up with any other idea. Let's just take this idea. Let's take a single trade approach. This is a trade example I'm proposing, since I want to capture the difference between IV and RV, I would want a scenario where IV is extremely high. I know IV would be extremely high when people pursue it is risky to open or close positions or hold positions, which is over a weekend. So I'm proposing, why don't I sell a weekend spy and add the money straddle on Friday? So simply, I'm just saying, why don't I open a position on Friday and close it on Monday? Let's take a break here. Let's review it again. The same idea the trade example, but we dissect it into steps and try to improve it as we move forward. We're going to have three to four iterations of this very strategy. This is this access going to tell you how to come up with a theoretical idea and options and then refine it as we move forward, to come up with the strategy that can take go live. So let's take finally break, and after that, we are going to resume this very example and post that if there are any questions left at end of the lecture, I'm going to take all the questions. So please type any questions you have, but within five minutes, we are going to come back here and then resume this particular slide. So.

Speaker 1  2:08:48  
Everyone, let's continue this exercise and post this poses. Yeah, we will be going to wrap this class, and then we're going to take the take any open questions. Yes, as I was saying, let's try to understand how to deploy this idea, which is implied volatility is more than realized most of the times. So how do we capture this? So we're going to get answers for all of this with a simple exercise. So I'll start with this iteration. We will send a weekend spy at the money straddle on Friday and let it expire on Monday. So what is happening is if you take a weekend spy contract and make a straddle. So straddle is a contract or a combination where you select call and they put, if you're selling a straddle, you sell an at the money call and at the money put, if you're buying a straddle, you're buying at the money call and at the money put. Here your idea is on. This is what people think on Friday. Friday. People. Or people don't want to take weekend risk, so premiums are high on Friday, on Monday, bring in crashes. So this is the thought process. Friday, the premiums are going to be extremely high because there is lots and lots of demand for options, because they would want to hedge their positions on Friday, because they are afraid about unknown, unknown impact on Saturday and Sunday, but on Monday, since the market is open, people are calm about it. They don't. They don't want to pay higher premium. The premium would crash. So you are seeing a high premium on Friday and low premium on Wednesday. So you are trying to capture it by opening a position that expires on Monday. Essentially, you take a contract that expires on Monday, you sell it on Friday. You take a short position on Friday and let it expire on Monday. That's what you're trying to do. And just one moment, yes, that's what you're trying to do. And this is the outcome, if I had to show you trade example is sell a weekend spy at the money straddle on Friday, let it expire on Monday. This is how it looks like. As you could see, it worked very well until some point, until 2019 then during covid, it crashed. So any kind of an options, idea or a hypothesis you got, and then kind of refining the strategy. This is how you analyze, try to understand the places where it behaved differently. This is the place where it behaved differently, until here it slowly went up, but then here it crashed. The reason is, let's try to understand what you did. The trade we did was sell options on Friday and buy options on Monday. In a way you're doing it, like when we say close options, we are buying option. So you're selling on Friday and you're buying back, maybe, I must say, buy back options on Monday. So when you sold options on Friday during covid, the volatility is extremely high, in the sense people are already ensuring a lot and lot. And on Friday, even though you sold at particular price, the demand for options are constant. And even on Monday, there is an extremely high demand. So you sold at, let's say $100

Speaker 1  2:12:45  
and then on Monday, it went to, let's say $200 I'm just giving an example. Let's say one $50 so you sold it high price, and then you bought back at higher price. That's why this is a loss scenario. So one learning from here is, I know weekend premium is there, but if people are afraid to enter into market, they want to insert it more and more, then selling it on Friday and buying it trying to buy it back cheaper on the next Monday doesn't work. So let's try to catch this area, because we are doing this on weekly, weekly sir, select weekend spy. These are the contracts that are only there from 2018 so we don't have enough data. Here we have from 2018 to 2020 let's try to deploy the same idea, but on a contract that expires on Friday, and see. Because here the data is there only from 2018 so we don't have much data. So the whole point is, if you use options expiring the next Friday and close them on Monday, we can go back to 2010 so here we have seen a pattern. Let's see if the pattern actually there. If we just trade on a contract that has more historical data. So this is how it looks like. I'm going to repeat this exercise, but then try to understand where we are going from this. So previously, let me just repeat it right away. We are trading with spy weekend contract zeta, fairly new. These were kind of structured in contracts or structured in exchanges, only just before covid, they were not there from 2010 or 2015 they are only there from 2018 so the whole idea is during weekend, you can actually use this contract that expires on every Monday and Friday. You can open a position, short position and close on Monday. But with that, we realized during covid, it actually lost a lot. But I don't know if I could trust this analysis or not, because we have only two years of data. That's why we are expanding. We are doing the same trade, but this time, we are taking. Contract that express next Friday. What's happening is you take these are done with weekend contracts from 2018 let's take weekly contracts that expire on Friday. So what I'm doing is Friday one, sell option. Sell, sell options, Monday, close options. So I am opening questions on Friday. I'm selling on Friday and closing those on Monday. With that I have data till 2011 and I could see from 2011 to 2017 this strategy worked very well. What I'm doing is, every week, Friday, I'm taking options contract that expires on next Friday, I'm selling them, and on Monday, I'm closing those positions. If I do it repeatedly, every week, 52 times every year, from 2011 till 2017 it looks pretty good. But then there is a drop in here. This essentially coincides with US elections that had happened. Is this related to Trump selections? And at that time, there is an unusual behavior where there is an extremely high demand for options premium. So options, even on Mondays went on going up. So I lost money. Then after that, during covid, you see an extreme drop again. So from this, I understood I can actually make money by selling on Friday and buying back on Monday, but it would fail when there are external factors that are driving the risk. So I would come up with an idea. What if I would try to capture weekend premium if Wix is less than 98% what does it mean? Is, let me write down I would short sell options only when market is not extremely volatile.

Speaker 1  2:17:10  
What if we do this? I would short sell options, but only when market is not extremely volatile. See what's happening is when market is extremely volatile, even when I sell it because of high, volatile scenario, the premiums are going up. And since I'm short selling and premiums are going up, I'm losing money for that very reason. Here, if I'm shorting every weekend, instead, I would short only when VIX is less than 98 percentile. That means when VIX is not extremely high. In this scenario, this is the first iteration where it actually started to show a healthy cumulative graph. So let me show you what we did. I'll just repeat what we did again. So strategy one sell weekend spy options on Friday, close on Monday. So if we do this, observation, lost strength during covid, and second observation data of weakened spy only available from 2018 so We did Strategy two, the second strategy we did was sell week Lee spy options on Friday, that expires on Friday and close on Monday. So what we did here is we did the same thing, but we took different contact instead of weak and expiry options, we took weekly expiry options. So same thing, observation when market is extremely volatile,

Speaker 1  2:19:22  
that's right. Strategy drawdowns. So I observed then there is marketing action like covid or like US presidential elections, the strategy actually loses money. So then we went with Strategy three. Strategy three sell the same thing we did, but only when Wix is less than 98 percentile. So what we are doing is, if market is extremely volatile, then we don't. Trade, if it is not extremely volatile, then we deploy it. This is the scenario where we started making profit. Now, what if we try something else? Strategy four is, you do the same thing. Sorry, sorry, you do the same thing. But let's add one more condition, but let it expire on next Friday, instead of closing it on Monday. Here we are closing it on Monday instead. Why don't we just hold it till next Friday? This was also done, and apparently this also actually loses money. So what we need to observe here is we can make money when there is a short window, which is weekend premium, Friday, short the position, Monday, close the position. If you keep on doing it, then you're making money. But if you open a position on this Friday and don't close it on Monday, but held it till next Friday, again, there is a decay in strategy, because over the week, anything could happen. Over the week the strategy, when market enters extremely high, volatile phase, it would actually go up. It could actually go up. And then you can lose your money when you open a short positions, right? So with these situations in mind, all the four strategies, this looks decent, where you sell your weekly SP options and close it on Monday, but then you do it only when market is not extremely volatile. This is a process you follow whenever you are thinking or strategizing any option strategy, because point one, it should make theoretically sensible. Because this makes theoretical sensible, because we started with an idea. Our idea was, our idea was IV is more than RV. Most of times, why don't they sell straddle and capture premium? These are some theoretical backing but when it comes to operations, we try different approaches. So ideally, you don't need to take live with four approaches. You need to backtest. You backtesting four approaches and see in different market conditions how this particular approach is working. That gives you insight of where you can optimize so this is how you actually go ahead with any kind of options trading. When it comes to volatility trading, it needs more theoretical backing. So this is, these are the statistics. It has a strategy of 29% with a volatility of 27% could be a volatile strategy, but it has good win rate. 71% wins are there. And essentially the only important thing you need to worry about this is if this is better than your existing strategy, then you can start giving some capital to it and see how it resonates with your capital risk ability. If not, then you can approach different ways also. You can actually see different methods also. So this is, this is how you capture weekend premium. But this is not the only way to trade. Volatility trading. There are different ways. The second one would be trading during earnings because it's there are few volatility patterns that are set on stone when you have earnings right. You would see, whenever there is an earnings report releasing within a month, you see a gradual increase in volatility until earnings, but one because everybody anticipates something on earnings, right? Some people would anticipate good earnings and some people would anticipate bad endings. The deviation between this good and bad is what causes volatility. Since we want to capture volatility, we want more people, we just need this split interpretation, right? You need somebody to expect it to go up, somebody to expect it to come down, only then you would see a volatile market, and that's where you're there to capture it. For example, if everybody is confident, you see a distribution like this. If I take a opinion of multiple people, let's say I gather 1000 people and asked, Where could the earnings be? Everybody is confident you see a distribution like this, but everybody, most of the people, are not confident you see a distribution like this, right? Essentially, where I'm leading up to is sometimes you would be a scenario where some people, half of the people are some portion of people might feel the earnings would be a bad earnings. Some people might believe it would be a good earning. So there is always a split decision in the market, for that very reason,

Speaker 1  2:24:24  
that you see a pattern that unveils whenever there is an earnings report. But it's not just about earnings report whenever there is an interest rate report. Maybe, if you are trading commodities, whenever there is an inventory report, what happens is just just before the earnings release, until the earnings release, since nobody knows what the earnings could be, you see a gradual increase in volatility. But right after the earnings release, since the earnings are out, everybody knows the information, you see a crash in volatility. This particular change in behavior of. Volatility is what you are strategizing to capture. Because even if you see what happening over weekend premium, that's what we did, we know there would be a crash in premium on Monday, so we try to capture it by open short positions on Friday. The same thing you do, you see a behavior. This is a standard behavior you see most of the scenarios of earnings, where 10 days before the earnings, if you see the pattern from here, the premium would IV, will keep on increasing. But just when the earnings are released, you see a jump. You see a sudden drop in earnings. And this is, this is this can be actually captured. I'm going back to the slide. So this is how you capture the front week, options will often have a much higher implied volatility than second week. What does it mean? It means, if you have earnings that are planned, the contract that expects before the earnings will have higher IB then the contracts that are expressed after the earnings. So if you could divide this into two parts, for example, I think I've created this in print, just to show you, if you see the same thing. If I divide it into two parts, this is t1, the T, let me actually give you. Let's say this is the day the earnings releases.

Speaker 1  2:26:29  
If this is the day the earnings release, generally you can, I'll show you three, four strategies to deploy during earnings. But ideally, this is how people strategize. They were like, Okay, this maybe this is the day the earnings will release. I would take an options contract that expires during earnings. I will take second options contracts that expect after earnings. So this is what it means when we say the front week options and second week options. What exactly it means is you can actually strategize a combination where you use two contracts, one contract that expects during earnings and the second contract that expects after earnings. So how we are going to strategize this is, if you have these two positions, if you want to capture this jump, because we know until earnings, there is an increase in volatility. After earnings, there is a crash in volatility. If you want to capture this move, that is a difference between what you see in t2 which is overall contract, that second week contract, and t1 which is first week contract. I'm going to repeat the same thing by showing equations, what we actually mean is there is an IV pattern that exist whenever there is a release of a major report, like for example, for market FOMC, if you're talking about us, markets have to talk about SMP, 500 index and FOMC, which is interest rates meeting is a major output for me, or for bonds, also any inflation reports, maybe employment reports, or interest rate reports, most bonds markets, right? Similarly, inventory reports, most oil markets, crop reports, most agriculture commodities. So either any of these reports, I'm not only talking about earnings for stock, you can actually do the same pattern, same approach for these also in these scenarios, generally, there are two volatilities that are there in the market any at any point. You know, a normal volatility is what you and me talk about. Okay, there is a volatility that is innately there in the market. But when there is an event like earnings, a new earnings volatility, a higher new earnings volatility, will add to the contract, because of it in general, whenever I was showing, as it was showing, if you know a date of release, if I know, let's say 10 days after I would have a release of earnings. I instead of betting on where the where the stock would go, instead of betting whether the stock would go up or stock would go down, I might as well bet on volatility, because I'm confident that their market will going to be volatile, right? I'm not confident on direction that itself tells me I'm confident on in volatility. I'm confident on people not knowing where the price would go. For that very reason, I can actually open a straddle, since I know price would go, I can buy a straddle and then close it on expiry day so that I can make money, or close it a day before expiry day. This is one simple way to make money. There are different ways I'm going to explain you one way to trade around earnings is just 10 days before, buy a straddle and then close it a day before, so that you can capture the increase in volatility. So that's essentially what it says, 10 days before the release by the straddle, and just buy a straddle that would be front expiration when release comes. What it means is by a straddle that expires around the expiry. And apparently, when this was tested for a decade, this has 43% win rate and the amount of money you get during wins or 70% more than during loss of like 1.7 essentially, what it means is, if you're winning, you're getting more money, but it's just that you're winning only 43% of times. So if you want to try this idea, you might as well start with a lesser capital, or just do paper trading. But essentially, there is some alpha you can extract from this earnings. IV, give me one second, let Me charge my laptop.

Speaker 1  2:30:56  
Yes, so, essentially, a simple way to extract money during earnings by volatility trading is by straddle or a strangle 10 days before or any number of days before earnings and wait for a spike in volatility. But this looks like an easy hanging fruit. That's why it's not a strategy that has higher winners, but still, there is some alpha, but the second, the second way to capture is the most of the money is there here. What if there is a way to capture this jump? This is called as implied jump, as you could see, if I could show you somewhere here, you see, maybe this is an easier way to understand from here to here, there is a spike in volatility, but once the earnings were released, this whole increase in implied volatility is because people doesn't have the information about volatility. That's why there is this spike in volatility. But once the information is out, once everybody knows what the earnings are, you see a drop in volatility. Do you see a drop in demand for options? That's what you want to capture. You can actually capture it. In fact, you can actually quantify it also, how much did it jump? You can actually predict it through so that, though, that's where we are actually leading to there are two different equations that are going to help us to understand how these are used. But as I said, again, you don't need to remember this, but at least try. I'll try to give you an intuition of how these are considered. For example, the very first one being, if you see whatever is happening with in t2 t2 is a contract that expires a week after earnings release. So let's say t2 is a tenure. Also you're holding it for t2 number of days. If I'm trying to understand what is happening with this contract, it is a summation of what happened before the earnings release and after the earnings release. That's essentially what this equation says. If I want to talk about what is happening during Second period, like a whole period, it would just be a sum of what happened in first period and between first and second period, which is quite intuitive, right? So even if you try to rearrange this, you come up with this equation. This tells you what is the volatility during this particular jump, if I know the volatility during second contract. Because, of course, whenever you have an options contract, you know the IV right, and when you know the volatility of first contract in this particular jump, if you want to capture you can use this equation, but there are easier ways. Also, for example, you have a very short equation that tells you what is this jump, which is a kind of an easier way to represent this right? If you have the shorter equation, like two by pi into sigma of E and stigma of E is represented by this. I'm going to explain it theoretically. Let's see how this is used, but I'll come back to this equation again and show you how these are actually done. So theoretically. This is how people came up with these equations. By the way, anybody wants mathematical derivation of this, just reach out to support, and I can definitely share an email, but I remember couple of students in the past asked me mathematical derivation of these, and I did share them an email. I can share with you guys, but in general, variance equal to normal variance plus event variance, right? So this is what's happening here. If I want to capture awareness, I want to capture what is this particular volatility during the jump, I can actually do this. This is the equation variance. Is normal variance plus event variance. So if I am talking about. Term, which is event variance. That would be variance minus normal variance.

Speaker 1  2:35:09  
So these are the two equations that are used here. The very first equation is this, whatever is happening within second time period is first time period plus the between time period. And the second equation is, whenever I'm talking to talking about variance during jump, it is a subtraction of normal variance from total variance using these two you there is this equation that was extracted, which is a jump that tells me, how much did it jump? Because if somebody tells me, I'll show you a practical example. If somebody shows me this apple chart and asked me to take a position, right? If somebody wants me to take a position, a long position here, and very first thing I would say is, how much jump would I expect if I am taking long if somebody tells me it is going up by 5% then I can think whether it's a good decision for me or not. Let's say somebody asked you to take a short position and told me it falls by 5% jumps down by 5% again, I can think if it makes sense to me or not, right? Similarly, if you are taking a volatility trade, if you are taking a earnings release trade. Then first you need to calculate this jump only when you're happy with this jump. I'll tell you how to calibrate this also. For example, if this jump told you it falls by 2% then you need to take a decision whether it a valuable bet or not. Or else, if somebody tells you, volatility might crash by 2% but your costs itself by 3% and it doesn't make sense. But if I use this equation, and it gave me a 10% jump in volatility, then if they are also considering my cost, then I can take this position. Let me show you an example. You can also put this in and like, as I was saying any kind of doubts on this mathematics, like some, let's say, if you want me to derive this also, just drop an email to support and I'll take it up. I can also share this calculations, but conserve one day volatility is 50% and one week volatility is 20% what I meant to say is all this capturing of volatility, either you previously, we have seen two contracts, one week friend month and one week friend week and one week back week. You can also do with one day and one week. Also, I am taking one day contract within one day, maybe my earnings are releasing, and after one week, this contract is expiring. If I take 50 and 20% these are the values. Let me show you the equations. In these equations I am talking about sigma one and sigma two. So if I take this, I can easily calculate implied jump, which is 2.6% and now when I am calculating this implied jump by using sigma one and sigma two, and t1 is one day, and t2 is seven days. Here I got the jump value. It was 2.6% now my question is, Should I take a position or not? But I'm only forecasting right. I forecasted a jump of 2.6% but how would I know whether it is a good decision or not too short options? Now I just need to compare with previous jumps, right? Because I know previous admix data I can pull in. And from that, I came to know at my last five years The jump was 3% on an average at 1.5 it makes sense to me, okay, I'm predicting a 2.6% jump, which is almost maximum jump that happened in the past. So it possibly a good idea to actually sell a front end straddle, right? So I sold it. And historically, if you do this, if you do is in a scenario where at least the jump size makes sense when you compare to maximum 66% of the times you're making money. But here, the issue is, when you're making money or not making as much as money you're supposed to do, like, win by loss ratio is less. But again, this is no way suggestion to go ahead with this strategy. But these are all ideas, right to repeat, you can either go long here and then sell here. You can deploy a strategy there, or you can actually use two different contracts that express at two intervals so that you can capture this jump. There are different ways also, for example, it's common to see reversals of the earnings. In fact, funny thing, people expect the stock to go up after earnings because they're expecting extremely positive earnings. More often than not, there are scenarios where even after positive earnings, the stock will go down. Those are actually patterns that people actually see.

Speaker 1  2:39:54  
In fact, they see because just before, because people expect the stock to go up, and it would have already. Went up as much as it's supposed to do before the earnings itself. So what happens after earnings? People just book their profits. For example, if there is a stock ABC, you believe that earnings should be extremely good and you're waiting for the earnings, but people would have already bought it, because it's a common knowledge in the market that it's going to release positive earnings. So let's say stock went up by 30% in a week, then earnings released. And you see, most of the time stock falls because it already went up, and people use that higher price and a confirmation of better earnings to sell their positions. So there are earnings induced release reversals, and there is post earnings announcement drift. This is one more scenario which is quite common, which tells you many times people expect positive or negative earnings, but once a positive earnings is released, you see a very good up move or a consistent move for next month or a month and off. That's quite common, and you generally see this for banks, and it stocks also where you see a spark in momentum when there is a positive earnings, and you see that momentum being continued for a month or two. So this is also one kind of a pattern. If you see this pattern, maybe you can just jump on this bandwagon and capture this momentum. So these are all different ways to capture volatility, or capture whatever happens during premium, right when there is a change in premium, that's what you're trying to capture. Essentially, we might call it a volatility trade or a Delta trade. It doesn't matter, as long as you buy for lower price and sell for higher price, or you do vice versa. But as I said, since we are talking about options during execution, you need to keep couple of points in mind. So the very first one being whenever you are trading options, right in the sense, let me actually show you. If I had to talk about Indian maybe I'll show you with markets also. It doesn't matter any markets. For example, the last traded price is 13, Feb, 330 right? So which is a Friday? So the last traded price is fifth, 330 ISD. But that is not the price you and me are able to trade for few brokers. It is at 315 for few it is 317 and theoretically, the settlement might not happen at 330 depending on the market you're trading and the geography you're in, the traders might not be able to trade beyond certain minutes. And after 15 to 20 minutes, the settlement might start. So where I'm leading to is if you have a position that is profitable already, it might not be profitable after settlement, because sometimes you might have positive positions just about at the money, and maybe they are just tad bit in the money. But after the settlement, because of settlement mechanism, it may become out of the money also. So it's always important not to wait till expiry. Every single time until you are weighing the money. That's just just one thing to keep in mind. And there are people who closes their positions when they actually start making money also, if it is an expiry day, because volatility is extremely high. And in fact, when we ever talk about taking a directional bet on volatility, the first thing we think is, what, what strike price to take? Right? Because, more often than not, market moves the way we wanted it to move, but just because we bought a cheaper option, which is of not so great strike we lose. So I'm going to show you an example. Let's see an example. Let me write a problem statement so that there would not be any confusion. I want to sell and options contract to capture options volatility premium, okay, my question is, what strike price of option I need to sell? So ask yourself this question, if you were to sell something and buy it back, what is our best price to buy? Sorry, what is the best way to sell if you have to sell something and buy it back, the best price to sell is at high, isn't it? So you would want to sell at high and you would want to buy it low. Essentially you want to have highest difference between sell price and buy price.

Speaker 1  2:44:53  
So this is what you want. You want where if you are talking about volatility terms variance. Premium to be the greatest. So you would want to select an options contract, select a strike price, which shows you it has highest variance premium. So let me show you how you do it, even if you open any kind of options data right now your if I take four different strike prices, let's see how what is the best strike price out of this four, right? I can take four different strikes, I can note down its implied volatility values, and after that, I can note down where they're trading. This is the first level of information that is widely available online. You don't need to do any calculation. But out of these four strikes with four different implied volatilities and four different premium values, which one should I pick? It is a common practice for people to buy cheaper options, or if you are selling it's common practice to sell costlier options. But both of the approaches are wrong. What you need to do is you need to study how much gap is there between implied volatility and realized volatility. So currently the volatility is at 30% right? In such case, you need to price the option at 30% volatility. We have gone through the Python notebook in the last class, where we are giving volatility as input to Black Scholes model, and it is giving premium as output, right? You take the same approach, but this time, give 30% as volatility. So it will tell you what is the fair price of option at 30 volatility. So if you calculate for different strikes, and this is what tells you, what is the gap between the current premium and premium at a Realized volatility. So you know, premium at implied volatility. This is the premium that it is getting traded right now. This is just a recurrent market price. You calculate premium at in 30% realized volatility. Then you know where the gap is here, the gap is 0.19 here, the gap is 324028, so this premium has the highest gap between options premium at implied volatility and options premium at realized volatility. This is a scientific way to find an options contract strike price that better suits your volatility trading. So that's how you select your strike prices. And when you actually select your strike price, as I said, if you are hedging, it's going to be a pain in the neck, because there are, there is a slip page, and you pay lots of pre brokerage costs, and also you need to hedge it quite often. So next class, we are going to discuss different methods. For example, delta hedging is quite a common thing everybody wants to do, right? So we can't ignore it. We're going to discuss mathematical approaches to find optimal way to do delta hedging. When I say optimal way, we need to know how many times per month I need to hedge. And we should also know at what price to hedge, because at every single price, if I start hedging, then I'm going to lose money on cost itself. So not only at what price to hedge, but also how many day, how many times I should hedge. Where should I stop hedging, actually? So now that you know how to select the strike, an extension of it would be a better way to do delta hedging that we are going to cover in the next class. But just to close this particular discussion on volatility trading, if you remember, let me go back to the very important equation we were discussing. This is a very important equation we were discussing. So to go back to this, any kind of a volatility trade, we said, if I know the way go of the contracts and the difference between implied and realize I can estimate the P and L, but only on an average. So let's try to do it for a straddle and a strangle. But let's take a simple example, let's take a scenario where both implied and realized volatility both are at 30%

Speaker 1  2:49:07  
so what happens if I take a volatility trade but both implied and realized volatility are at the same volatility level? Obviously my pointer should be zero, right? If both implied and volatility implied, realize April and realize volatility are same, then there is nothing to capture here. There is no variance premium to capture here. So my P and L should be zero, but interestingly, and actually, this example was added to make a point. We'll get that interestingly if we do it n number of times, there are scenarios where you make money. Okay, there are scenarios. Most of the scenarios are not making money, but there are also more many scenarios where you make money or lose money if you do the same thing for a strangle even here, there is a scenario where you are actually making money, but if you actually. Take on an average, these are the stats. So the point here is, you can't judge a single trade and predict what profit you more going to get, but on an average, if I am taking volatility trade in this scenario, this is a simple scenario, because both have same implied and realized volatility in this simulation, median, you might have some profits in median, in straddle and triangle, but on an average, the profit and loss is going to be zero. That's essentially what's the takeaway here? If you have an option strategy, this equation is going to be very helpful. The next lecture is where we are going to use it more. Along with other Greeks, we are going to simulate few hedging we're going to discuss better ways to hedge. We're going to see maybe in the next lecture. Before you take a trade itself, you try to calculate how much profit and loss you're going to get, then optimize the strategy and see whether you actually got the profit and loss or not. So that's about this lecture. Let me see if there are any open questions. But to repeat what we discussed today, today's class is all about volatility, trading, measuring the volatility, forecasting it, and irrespective of what the number is, you need to contextualize it. And then what are the different approaches we have seen how we do it with weekend premium, then we have seen how we can actually capture it using earnings. And also we have seen how we can capture it using covered calls. So let me see the open questions that we have right now. How to Calculate Vega of an options position shares. We have a notebook that we gave in which you can give the options inputs and then it will give you Vega. If not, you can also get it using, I don't know what broker you use, but depending on brokers, they're also give you Vega positions. So you can just take a sum of all the options positions you have open like, if you have 10 positions, just take some of Vega, and then you get Vega of your total open position. Can I take this with 10 pounds of 10k pounds of my own, or is it enough capital for i as far as I know, it's enough capital. I mean, because in options, there are different different if you're taking commodities, maybe it might take more money, but as much leverage, also you might get, but depending on the market you are in, generally, if you are trading stocks or equity options, then you can actually do it with lesser capital only, but index options will require more capital for covered call. How to Calculate far out of the many calls like Shreya? That's a very good question. Covered call, whenever you're taking you need to calculate this out of the money by finding a resistance. That's how you do it. But again, don't take it as a suggestion. But generally, when I fan create a covered call, also that's how I do. I take a resistance from a weekly chat and then I use it to select call option to capture the premium. And that's how everybody does it. In general, that there are people who does it using open interest also, but it's all about where most of the people pursue a resistance would be Anusha says, In India, we don't get the benefit of margin for covered calls. You do get Anisha, as far as I know, the last time it traded, jaroda actually gives you margin benefit. There are different margin benefits. You might want to use the span

Speaker 1  2:53:30  
calculator by jaroda and see different stripes, using different stripes and different open and close of calls and put see how the margin benefit is. But I'm sure there is a margin benefit, and you can actually capture more benefit by opening way out of the money calls, and then probably cover some benefit. But try it out. Try the span calculator. I am sure there are. There is margin benefit. Ragindra says, Is this one day till experience travel. Trade examples are a weekend expiring at the money started on Friday. That was not one day, no one day till expiry. Yes, yes, they are. You can see there are Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, every day expiry. Can try that out with one day till expiry? Yes, you're right. And JC says, How do I limit the tediousness of backtesting options. Do we not have to download every single weekly option contract for how many years we want to backtest your strategy? I asked the same question myself Jesse a decade ago. But you know what? You know what, let's let's wait till OTS six, because entire OTS six is on backtesting options, and I guess it would be a positive news for Shreyas also, because Shreyas was also saying maybe their background is not from Python, but OTS six, we are not going to discuss any theory anymore. What. Is five is when we stop our theory and practicals and OTs six is completely Pythonic. We are going to discuss how to backtest an option strategy, how to get the data by yourself. I'm written a code which you can directly use it to back test, trial, triangle, etc. So Jesse that that OTS six is going to help you. I know it is TDs, but I tried my best to actually make it easier, because I know even if you go you can use, use LLM, etc, even if you go Google it, it's quite unlikely you chance upon an options back tester. It's actually very difficult. I created an options back tester in such a way that you can also customize it. You add as many likes as you want, it's going to be interesting in what year six. I think the tediousness you feel for practicing options will be nullified. I hope she is how to calculate implied jump. Intuitively, she is. It's very easy if you want to calculate. It is just that, what is IV value a week ago and what is the value now, but the difficulty came, or maybe not so, intuitiveness came, because we are trying to forecast it. Calculating is easy. Last week, it is 30% now it is 26% there is a drop of 4% right? 4% not percentage from 30% but difference is 4% but we are trying to forecast it. That's where we had to take two different contracts, t1 and t2 and do all this mathematics may not be completely intuitive, but still, if you want to calculate, it's just a difference. Jesse asks one more question, getting the data to back test strategies. How do we go ahead with it? Are we downloading the data of every historical contract? If this is weekly. Would this not be a very tedious process? JC, yes, it is a tedious process, because that's the issue with options. In fact, as I said, OTs six, you would have in LMS entire data of SPX for, I don't know how many years, but you would have a different expiries. I'm sure it's in gigabytes, right? It is actually, it is a tedious thing to download, but if you could find a good API, nothing better than that, you can just plug in an API and get the data. But yes, you're right. You need to download data of different expertise, different strikes, and also different months, also that that is to be done, in fact, in OTS six, when we discuss options backtesting, a dedicated section is only for getting the data, because that is important, and shares ask in real time how to calculate strike wise options, premium using RV IV strikes options, premium, it's already available, but RV and IV, it's simple, because if you have a black swallows equation, if You give volatility is giving you output as premium, which you have already seen in the previous class. Black shows notebook where you are giving a single value. I can tell you programmatically how to do it. You just need to write a loop. There are different ways. You can create an array of premiums and calculate different RVs, like calculate premiums at different always. Or you can also create a loop. You try it out if you couldn't do it. If you need help, as I said, you can reach out to support. And definitely, if they reach out to me, definitely, I'll help you. That is there. And Shubham asked, Could you please repeat 30% volatility strategy for a straddle? Definitely. Shubham, it's actually a simple thought exercise.

Speaker 1  2:58:23  
Okay, the thought exercise you can think is, there is this equation? It is a beautiful equation, but it only works on an average. How do we do it? If only works on an average, then the question is, if you were taking a volatility trade. Can you predict the P and L every single time? No, both equations are right. Both, both statements are right. Because if I take an experiment, if I take a straddle, and I consider implied and realizable, they are 30% theoretically, you should not make money, right? But when we simulate using Monte Carlo, there are instance then you there is a chance, there is a minor chance where you make $2,000 or whatever, you make non zero profits, also non zero losses. Also, if we do the same exercise for triangle again, we have a non zero profits, non zero losses, but only when we take average of all these trades, then it respects this equation, which is P and L is Vega of difference between these volatilities that essentially is what we are talking about. Let me see, I see there is one more question. Just give me one second. Let me find this question. Okay, there are a couple of questions.

Speaker 1  2:59:54  
Do we have to join the contract together like we have? Jesse, no need you see. Do you need to join any contracts? Is because options you don't need to join contracts, because there are different contracts that are available, and then goes expired. So we create code in such a way that it tracks everything you don't need to join contracts, and Shreyas asks in real time how to go it is already done. It's answered for Shreyas. But again, shares, you can give it a try. If not, it's actually a simple exercise. I can help you. You can reach out to support, and I can help your email. Hope all questions are answered. Any questions, please reach out to support so that they will send the questions to me, and I'll help you. If there is a need, we can definitely get into a call, a personal call, and then solve any questions you have, theoretically or practically. And I hope this lecture is helpful, and let's, let's connect for the next lecture in a week where we discuss hedging and also practical issues, how to solve them. We take a real time trade example that was done in the past, and then try to optimize it and see everything about putting these things into practice. So thanks, guys, thanks for your time. Bye.

