Speaker 1  0:08  
Hello, all, and welcome to this session on Conte. By my name is Ishan, and before I begin this session, just a quick audio video check, so if you can hear me loud and clearly, and are also able to see the slide, just type yes in the Q and A box. Thank you for confirmation. So, just a quick introduction for those who are attending my session for the first time. So, my name is Ashan, and I'm currently working in Contra team as a con researcher. Prior to this, I've worked in Barclays in their investment bank division. Before that, I've worked with Merrill Lynch, so I joined in Merrill Lynch, and then it was taken over by Bank of America, so I got to work with both the firms in that way, and in terms of education, I've done computer science engineering, followed by MBA in finance, and I have also written a book on machine learning for trading, and today I am here to walk you through on this beautiful session on Conte Pine. so today's agenda is that the first part will be focusing more on how does a professional approach corn trading or con strategy development, so we'll be walking through steps, which would be there, like data gathering, screening, alpha generation, performance analysis, and will also touch upon one object-oriented programming concept, which is modular programming without much of a complexity in a very simple to understand and simple to implement manner. So that is the plan for first part. In the second part, we'll cover risk management, so in terms of risk management, sorry, risk and beta. So we are going to take a research paper, which is betting against beta, and we'll implement that paper. But in order to understand what is there in the paper, I'll cover few topics, like what is systematic risk, what is unsystematic risk, what is beta, how to calculate beta, and then finally we'll be covering betting against beta, and for those who are invested, interested in investing side of things, on how you can use cond investing, we'll also take one of the fundamental indicator and use that to create this particular maybe strategy, which, which will be covered, which is betting against beta, so given that, let us now start with the strategy workflow thing. And meanwhile, feel free to ask any questions during the session, so that the session becomes more interactive. Don't wait for the end of the session to ask your question. Feel free to ask as and when the doubt arise, I'll be very happy to solve those questions. So, if you go to any particular professional con trading fund, or even if you want to set up your own algo trading desk, or even a simple thing like let's say you want to create and trade on your own money, like a prop trading desk, so in that way it is always advisable that you follow a structured and systematic approach to trading, so for example, you just should not randomly start, let's say, writing a code or back testing a strategy, or maybe analyzing the performance, there has to be a fixed set of steps, which you should follow, so that you can get maximum output and efficiency from the whole journey, and it is also much more rewarding and satisfying experience. So, if you join a big hedge fund or a prop fund, then they would have separate teams for each of this task, and if you are in a smaller fund or a startup, you might overlap, like a same team might be doing multiple tasks around it. So, the very first step, which a firm might be doing, is that they might be collecting a lot of data, so they might be getting the price data, they might be getting different kinds of data, which are useful for generating trading signal, so one job of one team is just collecting data, cleaning it, make it ready for their trading team to consume back test and do whatever stuff they want. So that is about data.

Speaker 1  4:34  
Once you have the data, not all data would be useful for creating a trading strategy, so you perform some kind of a screening, for example, you are not interested in cryptocurrency data, you are not interested in bond market data, you are not interested in penny stock kind of a data, so all those kind of a data goes away, and let's say you are left with few of the assets which forms your universe on which you will be. Doing the next step, which is, you will be creating an alpha. So, what is an alpha? Alpha is anything which can help you achieve returns which are better than the markets. Otherwise, what is the point in creating a trading strategy? I am better off in investing in ETF, because if you are not going to beat an index ETF, then why should, why should someone put their hardened money behind your trading strategy, so we'll discuss about different sources of alpha, how you can get different ideas, how you can combine them together to create one good monolithic powerful system. And then finally, once the alphas are in place, the very next step is to back test and analyze the performance, so these are the alphas, these are the trading signals, which are getting generated, and what is the performance out of it? So you will analyze performance from different angles, because just analyzing through returns, or maybe just few of the metrics, will not give you a clear picture of how the strategy is behaving, and whether it is worth your time or not time and money, so we'll see how to evaluate the strategy performance. Okay, so now let's discuss each of this step in detail. So this is the first step, which you can see on my screen, which is the data step, right? So, as you all know, data is the new gold. Data gives you that power to scan the historical patterns, spot patterns, and create meaningful and useful strategies. So, very first kind of data, which everyone uses, is the price data. So, you have open, high, low, close, and volume data, and you can get it from Condor, your broker, like Zero, the Interactive Broker. They can provide you the data, and so on and so forth. Okay, that is one kind of data. Second kind of data is to do with the fundamentals of the company, or the earnings of the company. So, most of the stocks, which are listed, typically have a quarterly announcement of how their business is doing, so in terms of what is the revenue, what is the profit, what is the cash flow, what is the what is the balance sheet, and all those things are released by the company, and not only that, when the earning is going to announce also becomes a crucial source of information, right? Because you can use that information to create a trading strategy, because generally there is a lot of uncertainty, which is associated when someone is going to announce the earning, whether it's going to outperform the estimate, underperform the estimate, or what the firms are typically doing. That is a second source of information, third source of information, which is not used too much by the trader, but few professional traders do use this, which is a sentiment kind of a data, so you're typically you use the announcement, so typically there are three ways in which, if you're tracking equities or any particular thing, so you can assume that there are three levels of information, which are released. So, at the very first level, you have the company itself, who might be releasing some statement about what is going to happen, and the source for this would be con calls management interviews, and so and so forth, right? So you're typically you send us to some kind of a sentiment analyzer, or even to some Chat GPT, and see that whether the sentiment is positive or negative, and basis of the degree of the positiveness, you can have a trading signal, right? You can take a position in that particular company. So this is first level of information, which is from the company itself.

Speaker 1  8:55  
The second level of information, which is from a third party companies, so there are a lot of maybe I can say that lot of companies, which are tracking a particular stock, for example, there might be research houses, for example, they might be writing a research report on a company like this particular company, this was the con call. This was the expected. They have received some orders. They are going to do this. They are going to do that. So there are some research companies, brokers who are continuously writing on a company. Then there are news agencies which are publishing about the company. For example, there is Times of India or Times of New York, New York Times, so on and so forth, they can write about a particular company, what they are doing, and so on and so forth. So third party, but institutional companies having a view on a company that unstructured text can also be used to generate a sentiment, and the third form of. Information which is generally from non-institutional guidance of people, like maybe I'll just say people in general, so they can go to social media like X, or they can go to some, some research, some community discussion, or some anywhere any social public platform like Reddit, and so on and so forth, so they can go there, express their view about a particular financial asset, and that can have some repercussions on the value of that particular company. So one classic example is you might remember that Elon Musk typically writes a lot of things about the cryptocurrency on maybe X, and you see that you might find some or the other correlation of the tweet or the comments which it is making on social media and the price movement which is expected, and does anyone remember, like Reddit was one of the source for driving the stock price of one company, so does anyone know that, right? So that was GMA, GameStop stock. So what happened is in Reddit, few of the people came together, and then it all started, and which actually caused the price movement in this particular stock. So just wanted to highlight that even sentiments or the views and other things which are expressed on the internet would have implications on the data, right. Why we are discussing this, because not all kind of data is useful. You have to think through, like, what data will eventually have predictive power in forecasting the price movement of that particular asset. Sorry, and the fourth part is something to do with legal, regulatory, and economic part of the of the country, or a global economy in general. So, for example, what is happening is a geopolitical war, for example, or maybe a war like US, not US, but I'll say with Iran, how the war is happening, and war between Russia and Ukraine. If you feel those kind of things have repercussions on the stock price movement, then that becomes a source of information. Then what the Fed is going to do, whether it's going to do a rate cut, hold, or what when the Fed meeting is there, that can also give some useful information about creating a trading strategy, so all of this in general was there to highlight, so that you can start thinking like there are different sources of data, different kind of data, which are useful in predicting the movement of the stock prices, and if you are able to leverage this, you can create different sources of alpha for your trading strategy. So, does anyone use any alpha or any source of data which is not listed here? Like, is anyone using this? So, the question is, is anyone using any other data which is not listed here? Okay, Shubham says crude data from OPEC. Okay, so which would be similar to this? Okay, you are tracking the production of the crude. Okay, so yeah, the unstructured or this legal, regulatory, and economic kind of a data. So nowadays, when I was talking with someone, someone was even tracking how many ships are moving from straight of hormones, like that is they are tracking how many ships are moving out, and that is giving a signal of where the crude price is headed.

Speaker 1  14:07  
So, if there are a lot of ships which are passing through that straight of hormones, then it seems like the crude price will go down, and if not, then they are expecting the crude oil price will go up. So, yeah, that is also one kind of data, which recently, after the war, people have started tracking. Okay, and Chubham says he is also tracking, which is good to know. So any other kind of data which anyone is tracking? Okay, world monitor, very good derivatives market data, so Zubin, if you can elaborate on that, what kind of data are you tracking in derivatives market? Okay, so all this economic and regulatory data, Shubham, which is CP. AI PMI data, and all these things. Okay, so Shreyas and Zubin, so Shreyas is tracking change in open interest, and Zubin is also checking co-I shorts and longs. Yes, so that is one data which is not mentioned here. So, a lot of people might be tracking, let's say, as simple as implied volatility of options to create a trading strategy, or maybe open interest in the derivatives market to understand where the market is headed, about from the different strike prices of the options. Also, so, so, yeah, there are less option lower, seems like in this particular group, but typically that's a very, very favorite metrics for someone who is trading heavily in options market to track which is the implied volatility, whether it's there is a skew smile or what kind of kink, whether it's a kink or how the implied volatility is changing, whether volatilities are high, low, and so on and so forth, put call ratio, and so on and so forth, so yeah, these are all kind of data now. Let us try to get this price data. Okay, so what I'm going to do is I'm just going to open one of the Jupyter notebook, and we are just going to build a strategy in a step-by-step manner of how it is shown in the workflow, right? So the very first step is the data, so we'll try to get the data. So, what we are going to do is that first we'll define that what data we want. Let's say we want data for LIC Housing Finance. So, I'll just return the ticker for it here. Then, I'll also define the start date and end date for that particular data, so I get data for from first gen 2017 to maybe what is this 20th Feb 2026 that is the duration of the data, and this the name of the asset which I'm interested in now. How to get the data right, so for that, what I've done is that I write, so there is a data file here. So, within the data file, what I'm doing is that I'm importing Yahoo Finance. I'm getting data from Yahoo Finance. You can get it from your broker or anywhere, but just for illustration, I'm getting data from Yahoo Finance. Then I have defined a function which says get stock data, which takes three argument name of the asset, start date and end date. Then I'm saying that yf dot download, which is one of the method in Yahoo Finance, and this three parameters, which is start date and end date, and the name of the asset. Then there is a parameter which says auto adjust equal to true, so does anyone know what adjustment will this particular function do? I Ah, one of the reply is close is adjusted, so no, that is not true. We are not doing any adjustment for the close prices, so a lot of them, like, have this misconception that this will adjust, that will take an average of last 30 minutes price, and something of that sort, there's some misconception, which is there, like price kind of an adjustments, so that is not true. This adjustment is not for that, but as many of them have mentioned, it is the adjustment for bonus split adjustments and all the corporate actions, basically. So, for example, if there is a split of one is to one, so the stock price will actually become half. It is, let's say, $1,000 Then it will become $500 So, if you do the adjustment, then it will smooth it out. It will be like 500 to 500 right? It will not have the trusting, drastic 50% drop in the prices.

Speaker 1  18:59  
So, auto adjust is mandatory, and you should always use the adjusted prices for better back testing outcomes. Okay, so now we are getting this data and storing in a data frame known as data. Anusha says date as the first column, so yeah, by default date will be set as index and it will be returned in the in the form of index when we are calling this function and this particular data frame will be returned back to the calling function right if there is any exception there will be this exception which will be raised so we have written this in a data.py which is a new file, and the whole function would be there, so Shubham is asking why multi level index is false, so you can even set it to true, but false is much better, because since we are dealing with a single stock, we don't have, we don't have that requirement of having multiple index, so. So, so, yeah, it's up to you whether you want to set it true or false, since we are dealing with single stock, we have set it to false, and this is all there, right, this there in data file, and we are calling the function, and we have written the function, and so on, and forth, so forth. Now, how to use this function, right? So, how to use this function, we go back to the notebook, we then say that the name of the module, which, which was there, was data, right? So I can save from data import, and then I'll specify the name of the method, which is get stock data. Okay. Now someone said that. Okay, this is fine. Like, I created the function, but I forgot what was there in this function. I don't know the signature of it. What parameters are required in what order? So, for that, you can say double question mark followed by the name of the function. Okay, once you run this. Sorry, once you run this, you will get the complete signature of the function, which will say that this is the signature of the function, which is get stock data. This is the source file, like what the function consists of, right? So, double question mark followed by the name of the function will reveal everything about that function, including the source code, signature, where the file is stored, and so and so forth. If you don't want such a detailed view and only signature is required, then a single question mark will be sufficient. Single question mark will remove the source code, and you will just can look at the signature right, and will this only work on the functions? No, it can work on the full file itself, right. So I can say import data, and then I can say double question mark data, so it will give me the full source code of the file data, data dot module. So it's a, it's a module, it is stored here, and this is the file location. This is the source code, and so on and so forth. And this does not work just only for custom methods, it can work for anything, right? So we have a very popular package like NumPy, so I can do double question mark followed by NumPy, and it will give me the entire source code of the numpy module, so it's a very powerful way of querying and getting the information which we want without actually going to the folder. It's a Jupyter Notebook magic command. You can say that, zoom in to get this information, okay. So, so we know that this is how we can query and get the information about the data. So, what I'm doing is I'm calling this get stop data, passing the name of the instrument start date and ended, and storing it in data. Okay, so compared to this, this is option one, right? This is one way of doing things. So let me write this as option one. Okay, now what is another option? So I so let me say another option, which is option two. So another option is I can simply say import y finance s by f, and I can simply say the same thing, which I'm doing above, which is instead of get stock data, I can pass all this year like this and store it in data.

Speaker 1  23:46  
Okay, and I do data dot head. Okay, so let me run this. Hopefully it runs, and it does run, and I have to set some parameter, which I am doing there, so that my output exactly matches, okay, so I can run something like this, and I'll get the required data, okay. So I am getting the same data, whether I run this or this. The data is exactly the same. Okay, so both option one and option two is giving me the same data, it is using same number of lines, which is three lines here, three lines here. So, which is a better option, and why? That is the question for everyone. So the question is, is option one better or option two better, and with reasoning, why is that particular option better? Maybe you can say option two is better, for example, you don't have to manage a separate file like data.py and it's very easy to use something of that sort, so you have to select the option, whether you want to go with option one or option two, and give a reasoning for it. Why it is better. Okay, Shubham says option one, as it encapsulates the code base, so which is fine. You don't know what is happening in the download, also, right? It also encapsulates the code base in a way, and the number of lines of code are exactly the same, so that is not a very, I'll say, very heavy advantage, which you are getting in option one, compared to option two, because yeah, if I say that is the reason, maybe most of them will not follow that particular approach. Okay, next answer is option one, because if we have many custom made function, it would come handy, but this is also custom made function only right, df yf dot download. We can use this function anywhere. So, the argument which you are raising is well taken. If I have 100 lines of code, and I can simply put that 100 lines of code in a function and just call the function everywhere. So, instead of writing those 100 lines of code, I just have to do a function call. So, in that way, it will save a lot of time for me, but as you can see here, what I'm doing is the number of lines of code is exactly the same. Okay, Manjunath says one, because it helps if you want to make changes later. Okay, so we'll come back to that. Nicole says it is like two is better because it is more transparent, definitely it's more transparent. We exactly know what is happening, but it comes that transparency comes with an added less flexibility, which we'll discuss right now. But yeah, for someone looking for more transparency, then this is better, and someone might even ask, what is written inside Y after download. They would like to know that also in the name of transparency. So, in that case, your code will become very bulky, but yeah, you know everything, like what is happening. Less number of arguments is just maybe a difference between the two, but not very significant difference, it's just two more arguments. Okay, there are other also. Okay, function can be called and option one is better to abstract and maybe change to another source, so Okay, it offers a lot of options as well, and one last is also will allow reusability of the code, so option one allows revisability, but since the number of lines are same, that advantage is not very significant here, and yeah, and there are other replies also, so most of them are categorizing their reply in terms of maybe transparency or more flexibility, because that is there, but the real answer to this question, so the correct answer is option one, and the real answer, why option one is preferred over option two, as some of you have already mentioned about it, is about code maintenance, right? The code maintenance is the biggest driver for this particular thing, and let me explain you with an example, so we have both option one and option two, and consider this scenario that you have used this option like either one or two in your hundreds of notebook, right? You have hundreds of strategies, and each of the strategy will require data, and to get the data you will be using this particular method.

Speaker 1  29:18  
So let's say you have used either option one or option two in hundreds of data, and it is there now. Let's say you have used option two, and suddenly Yahoo Finance says that I'll be no longer able to provide you the data. Please arrange for an alternate source of data, Tata. Bye bye. So, what will you do? What will be your reaction to this? Oh my god, now sit and ask Claude Co work to make changes to those 100 files where you'll ask to change from Yahoo Finance dot download to some other vendor like a Google Finance or a Condor or any other place, right? So change those 100 files, then test it, whether it is working, not working, and so on, and so forth. That is too much of a work, unnecessary work, which we are doing, compared to that. Consider option one. You have used that in 100 notebook. No worry if Yahoo Finance starts stops supporting us. Don't worry, just change this line of code, so instead of line eight, which is import, you will say import from condol, and here you will have some line which will say condol dot get data, or something of that sort, right? That's it. Just change the two lines of code, and you are done with it. You don't have to touch those 100 files, then the 100 files will start receiving the data from the new source, that is the real advantage of modular programming. So, a lot of time people don't know the real advantage of modular programming. There are some commonly well-known concepts, which are taught in a textbook, like it will help you reduce the line of code, it's better, it's object-oriented, so and so forth, but the real use cases, they are not aware of it, helps you isolate the logic from the main code, so if you want to change that logic, you just change at one place, if you have made error, or if you want to change it, that's it, that's the real benefit you are getting from making your code more modular, so that is the key reason, and as Subam is also mentioned, that we have handled exception. You can do a lot of things when it comes to this thing. You can also have a data cleaning module here, so all of this, which are commonly used repairing things, can be easily encapsulated here and used there. That is the obvious benefit, which will get from modular programming, but you also get one more hidden benefit, which is a better code maintenance in response to third-party or external factors. Okay, so therefore we are going with option one, and let me remove option two from your and yeah, so we got the data for LIC Housing Finance, and this is how the first 100 data points look like, so it seems like a momentum stall, and maybe your it has started to flatten out, so, so, yeah, let's see how we can define what we can do after that. Okay, so once we have that data, this was a single stock data, but let's say we have got the data for too many stocks. The next step is that your strategy won't be suitable for for all of them, right? So you have to remove or let go of the stocks which are not required, so one of the things which you can let go of is penny stocks. So penny stocks is whose value is anywhere less than 10 rupees, maybe in India, or maybe few dollars, less than few dollars in US and other geographies. What are these penny stocks? These penny stocks are something which has their own mind. They don't follow most of the commonly known strategies, which works on other stocks, might not be working on this particular stocks, and most of the stocks in India might be in upper circuit, lower circuit, or don't know what is happening with this particular breed of stocks, so what is better? Of you are better off in removing them and avoiding them when you're creating a strategy for, let's say, 200 top 200 stocks or top 500 stocks. You are better off in removing this penny kind of a stock from your portfolio, right?

Speaker 1  33:38  
Himanshu says, don't you think we should use market cap to identify penny stocks, that can be also one of the approach, but then you can say micro cap stocks, remove micro cap stocks, I don't want to deal in micro cap stocks, then that would be your strategy, but generally, why the name penny stock, if you see the the naming penny, penny has to do with the price, and why price? Because retail investors, I'm not talking like people with like you and me, but those who are like first timers in the market, and they don't know what is happening, they will go and search for stocks with the lowest price, that is how they start investing or trading, per se, they will say that which stock is available in $2 for example. So that is the stock I should be buying, because it is cheaper for them. They will not understand that it is the most costly stock, which they are buying in terms of valuation or market cap, or whatever angle you want to look at, right? So that is why this favoritism around penny stocks started. They think that if I buy a $2 or a two rupee stock and it becomes $10 I can make five times of my money. That is the common, I'll say that understanding while dealing in penny stocks for these people I. That is the reason people try to exploit who are dealing in this penny stocks, right? So that is too much about penny stocks, but ideally the point here is that you should remove the stocks which are penny kind of a stocks, so that your strategy, which might be very good in top 100 stocks, does not suffer because some of these penny stocks makes up, meets gets into your university, okay. And okay, Shreya says we could target Nifty 500 so that is another way of screening stocks. So this penny stock is one idea. Now Shreyas is suggesting go with Nifty 500 someone say Nifty 200 someone will say SNP 500 someone will sell only dealing NASDAQ stocks, tech stocks, whatever. So that is your screening criteria, that is your filtering criteria, and you are spot on. That is how you will define that these are the set of stocks which I want to deal with. I don't want to deal with other stocks, so, so, yeah, that is one kind of a screening which you can do. And next is the low liquidity. Now, why is this important? Right, most of the people remember my words. 90% of the people whom I have met have not considered liquidity as one of the parameters in their back testing. Why? Because they just that went out of their mind, or they don't know, they don't have that particular experience, but this is the most important thing, right. Let's say one of the ways in identifying low liquidity is based on your own portfolio or trading capital, which you have, so for example, if you have a portfolio, so I'm just writing portfolio, it can be trading portfolio, investing portfolio, capital, or anything, so let's say if you have, yeah, so let's say if you have a trading portfolio of dollar 100 million, okay, and you are kind of a trader who will only be dealing in 10 stocks at a time, you won't be dealing in more than 10 stocks, you are having a concentrated portfolio, okay, so that is how people differentiate you, right? Because they feel like you are that high conviction kind of a trader who can deal in less number of stocks and get the required output. Okay, now there are two stocks, stock one and maybe stock two, but let's say there is one stock, which is stock one, and the average daily volume of this particular stock is lesser than 10 million. Okay, so definitely let's say you are an equal weighted portfolio. Okay, you are putting equal capital in the entire portfolio, right? So this is obvious, right? If the average daily volume, dollar volume in this particular stock, which is stock one, is less than 10 million, then there is no chance that you will be able to buy this stock in a day, right?

Speaker 1  38:19  
And second thing is that you are not the only buyer in the market, there are hundreds of different buyers in a particular market, so you can't even think about taking the entire liquidity, so then what is the rule of thumb? So the rule of thumb says that that you can only buy if the average daily volume is with whatever is there, and you want to buy, let's say, 10 million worth of stocks, so 1% of the 1% of dollar volume in a day, this should be greater than the amount which you want to buy, so your it is 10 million, then only this stock is worth trading in, right? Why 1% Because you are just assuming that you will be able to get at least 1% of the liquidity which is available. This can be half a percent, 2% that is all fine, but I'm just giving you some benchmarks, so if it is at least one person, then only it makes sense to trade in that particular stock, so you can easily get in and get out of it with minimal slippages. I will say otherwise, your slippage will be very high, or you might even get stuck on some of the stock. It is a very common error, so there are a lot of small cap funds or those micro cap funds, which are there, and typically what happens is in a bull market, typically people are able to get in into it, like it takes four to five days to purchase some quantity of a stock, then suddenly something like this happens, a wall. Happens like currently it is happening, and the markets are in a bare state. They are falling, falling, falling, and what will happen is in this low liquidity stock, if you have a significant or substantial position, it's very difficult to get out of it. Like, lot of them are trying to get out of some of this low liquidity stock in the current market, but are not able to because they don't have that sufficient liquidity to to pull this off, okay. So now let's take a quick exercise to to see whether you have understood this particular concept or not, so Okay, so we'll take a stock, which is let's say PSN so I'm just taking one stock, for example. Okay, so let's take this Mega Raw Hills, for example. Does it have the required thing? Let's take PSM. Okay, so we are taking Pearson, for example, and here is the problem statement. So this is a Pearson stock, and we have all the information, which is here. Let's continue with the same example that I'm a portfolio manager with 100 million of a capital and I only trade in 10 stocks where I have to buy 10 million in each of the stock. Okay, so my question is that can I buy 10 million worth of Pearson, yes or no. So you have all the data, you can use data from here. So I'll just pause for two minutes. You can just type yes or no in the question box. So the question is, I'm a portfolio manager with 100 million of capital, where each of the stock takes 10 million. So I want to put 10 million in Pearson stock, which you can see on my screen, and I'm asking whether I should be trading this particular stock, yes or no, only on the basis of liquidity. Okay, so there are few answers, which are there already, you are quite fast in that way. Thank you. Okay, maybe someone who is saying yes or no, maybe they can give some reason. It might be better to understand your perspective, because there is no, I will say, a very rigid answer that has to be this. If you have a proper reasoning behind it, it will also be better. Okay. Alright, so there are few answers, which are there. Some of them are yes, some of them are no, and some of them says they don't know well what they should be doing, and someone is saying buy and get the prices up, that's also one of the strategy. Okay, someone is saying they are looking at market cap.

Speaker 1  43:55  
Okay, so yeah, anyone can look at anything and make a judgment, which I don't have any problem with that, but in general, what I am trying to say is that market cap in general is not sufficient, because you are a trader, you want to get in and get out of the position. Let's say most of that market cap is with the promoter, and it's not going to come in the market. Let's say 80% of them is with promoter, so in that case, market cabin in alone silo will not give you a proper, I'll say, judgment of whether you should be buying that or not, but something which is of importance to us is volume, so we'll look at this, so there is a volume of 1.3 8 million, which is there, and what is the dollar volume formula? So, so 1.38 is the volume, and the price is 12.59 for example. Okay, so we'll just take 12.59 for our calculation, so. So let's say I take 12.6 just rounding out, so that I can easily calculate it into 1.3 8 million stocks are basically traded, but average volume is 1.18 so I guess that would be a better metrics rather than just looking at volume, so I'll say 1.18 Okay, so I need to quickly do this calculation, which seems to be difficult, but let me give it a try. So 1.18 into 12.6 so roughly, if I'm getting it right, should be around 15 million, maybe it could be 14 point something, but I'm not getting into that exact number. It will take some time for me to get to that exit number, but let's say this comes out to be 15 million, approximately. Okay, please, please forgive me, I'm not able to get to that exact number, but let's say it gets to that 15 million, kind of an approximate calculation, which I'm having now. You want to buy 10 million, and you're the daily volume is 15 million. Someone say that, okay, 10 million is less than 15 million, I can buy this, but I would say that you are not the alone one who will be buying it. So ideally you should just consider 1% of it, so this is just 0.1 5 million, which you would have your hands on without causing much of the impact on the prices and other things, so this is all you can get in a day, and if you want to complete a position which is of size 10 million, then it's going to take you lot of time, and therefore this stock should be avoided because of the liquidity reasons. Okay, so that was about low liquidity, and okay, someone, okay, Shreyas did share the exit numbers, so thank you, Shreyas. So it was 14.868 so I was not very far off from that number, so yeah, thanks. So, so yeah, so that is about low liquidity, and also you can remove stocks for high volatility. Someone would say volatility is our friend. Why should we remove it? You are absolutely right. You should not be removing it. You should only remove it. Let's say, if you are a pension fund manager, where you are managing money for retirees, and they are relying on you to give a let's say some amount of money at fixed interval, and their retirement is on your fund management skills. And if you're going to misuse that money and put it in a cryptocurrency, put it in some gambling, go to casino and put it there. So then you are basically not adhering to the mandate which you have created for the fund, so if that is the mandate, that is the outcome which you want, then you are better off in removing high volatility stocks from your portfolio, and the fourth one is that you can remove stocks which went through mergers and acquisition. Okay, so what is this? So there is one company. Let's say there is a steel company, which is having a very volatile price movement. Okay, and it just acquired a fast moving consumer good company. So generally, fast-moving consumer good company have less volatility in their price movement. Okay, now this was a 10 billion kind of a company, and this is also a 10 billion kind of a company, and suddenly their kids got married, and they decided to merge both the business. Okay, now what will happen?

Speaker 1  49:02  
You have created some strategy on your right sell your buyer or whatever. Now the merge company price movement would be very different than what you would have back tested in the historical data. So will your strategy, which you have created on this particular still company, work in the merged entity, the answer is no, because now it is no longer only a steel company, it is a steel company plus FMCG company. So, in that case, you don't have sufficient data on what the day around how the price will be moving, and therefore you're better off in removing stocks which went through mergers and acquisitions. Now, this is only applicable if the mergers are happening between two like-minded or similar size company, right? So, if a 10 billion company acquires few, maybe 1 million kind of a company, then it will have a very minuscule impact on. On the overall price movement and the business in general, so then you don't have to remove the stock, you have to only remove the stock if the mergers is happening between two similar kind of a company. Okay, so Shubham says management style may affect the company existing strategy after mergers and acquisition, so that is true. So, typically, if management is changing, then also you should get out of such stocks. That is what Shubham is hinting at. That is also true, which I agree with him, and not only management, if two very. if a company started acquiring different, different, different companies, so all those smaller, smaller companies will suddenly become a huge chunk of the revenue for that company. So then also you should get out of it, only in case where one company is acquiring another company, which is very similar to that acquired company and very small in size, then you ignore this. Otherwise, typically in professional setup, they typically exclude the companies which are going through mergers and acquisition. Okay, someone is asking how to remove stocks with prospective mergers and acquisition while forward testing. So, you need to get the data, Shreyas. That's a very good question, and you need to get the data, and the accuracy of the data will depend, will actually guide the decision making process. So, some of them will provide you data when the mergers and acquisition occurred, and you can remove the data from that. Now, if you even want to remove a stock, whenever there is a news around, right, typically there is a press release that we are going to merge these two companies after three months. You don't have to wait for that three months to remove the stock from your portfolio. You can remove as soon as that, but as you mentioned, for forward testing, for back testing, you should then get the date of when the first announcement was made, and if you go to a data vendor, they have all this kind of data, you don't have to worry about it. They'll give a data when the first release was announced, when the merger actually happened, and so on and so forth. In fact, some of them are using this data to create a trading strategy. We are using this data to exclude a stock. Some of them are using this particular data to create a trading strategy. They are saying that typically volatility increases after announcement is made for mergers and acquisition, and that gives them that trading opportunity to trade more in such stocks, so Uh, Jesse is asking, what is M and A? Yeah, M and A is mergers and acquisition, which is one company getting merged with another. So, as Shreyas is mentioning about Arcelor, Mittal, and there are a lot of like Open AI acquiring smaller companies, Meta acquiring lot of companies, and likes of Google, Amazon, they keep on acquiring companies. Okay, so that's about screening that you should be careful about, because not everything is there in universe is suitable for your trading strategy, so you should remove that. Okay, now what is the next step? You have the data, you have the universe, and now you are ready to create the most interesting part of the whole quant strategy, which is the alpha. Why is alpha important? Because not everyone can generate alpha. Right, there are so many fund managers, so there is an.. there is some stats which says most of the fund managers underperform the benchmark.

Speaker 1  53:52  
So I don't know the exact number, maybe I can just give you the exact number. How many percentage of one manager? manager under perform the benchmark, so you'll be surprised to see this number, right? This would be a crazy number, just getting it, okay? So it says 90% of active fund managers underperform the benchmark. This is serious concern, right? And therefore, this is not an easy job, easy task to achieve, right, of outperforming the benchmark. And why it is important, right? Because if you are continuously going to underperform the benchmark, then someone is better off in investing in that benchmark ETF, right? Why would he come to some fancy con strategy world where he will be charging some high fees for it, and so on and so forth, right? So this is the most important part, and I'm very happy that you guys have decided to learn through this program, and therefore you are in a better probabilistic. Position to create something better out of this whole thing compared to some random person trying to create a con trading strategy, but coming back to this, 90% of them underperform. So, what can be done so that we don't underperform the market? So then it goes back to what is the source of the alpha and the quality of the alpha will determine your success. Now, someone would say, "Okay, where to get this alpha? Where to get this high-quality alphas? So, there are various.. I'll say maybe ways to get the alpha. So, let me write here. So, one of the ways in which you can generate or get the alpha or basically the idea of how to trade in the market, so one can be based on your own experience, so if you are trading in market and you know that for example, RSI works, or moving average works, or maybe something works, super train indicator works. This particular thing works. Try to automate that particular strategy, and that will become your source of alpha, which can be scaled, which can be, you can create a PMS out of it, and you can set up your own algo test and, and, yeah, so that is one source of alpha, which is your own experience, this is your own self experience. Okay, second is others experience, so why would someone share their experience, which is also true, but people love to talk, and if you are, let's say, a developer, and someone is a trader, and he does not have the confidence of creating and automating a trading strategy, then you can say, I have that skill, and you have this skill, let's come together and create something magical out of it, so that is others' experience. You can talk to your seniors from EPAD, you can talk with your juniors in EPAD, you can talk with faculty members. So, so I'll write juniors, seniors, same batch people, you can come together or or talk with your faculty member, so on and so forth, so this can become a source of alpha, because you are interacting, you will get some meaningful information from this, and this can become a useful source of alpha for you, so that is the second source of alpha, now own experience others experience and now the third thing is you target those much wider people who are not in your network, so this is basically you are leveraging your network, your the people whom you know, okay, maybe from office, your seniors, juniors from office, senior juniors from EPAD program, or from your class school, anywhere whom you are touch with, and who are doing this kind of a trading, so you are basically playing out on your network, and third is playing out on a non-network people, so you typically target academic research here, so that can become a source of alpha for you, so academic research, so this typically is the place where typically firms whom whom they hire you will typically send you like read these papers and get some ideas and do this and do that, so for example you can go to some website like SSRN com, and your search for something like this equity market anomalies, or you can search for anything, right, any kind of anomalies, and then it will give you a bunch of papers like our equity. This is sad. Let me find something.

Speaker 1  59:02  
Equity anomalies and idiosyncratic risk around the world, content market anomalies. There is something, and investing in stock market anomalies. There are some ideas, your impact of calendar anomalies. So, there is some research, but it's in Pakistan, so let us not go there, and this short selling and market anomaly, so might be relevant paper in the current market situation on how to short sell and seasonal anomalies in Indian equity market. So, maybe if you read this paper, you will typically understand whether the anomalies exist or not. It's a four year old paper, and they have studied from 1990 to 2021 So, maybe this is the then there is a momentum effect. Then there is China market anomaly monsoon effect in Indian equity markets. So, monsoon will start in the month of July, so June, July. Okay, so if you are interested, then you can read about this, and a lot of things, oil prices. This is also relevant today on how oil prices typically behave, and what are the anomalies there, and so on and so forth. So, just to highlight that, research paper also becomes a significant source of finding those alpha ideas for you, so some of the commonly well-known things, which typically you would hear, can also be tested out, which is sell in May and go away. There is a January effect. There is buy and hold quality stocks, typically Warren Buffett, Peter Lynch, kind of people. There is a main reversion. There is a trend following a lot of other style of trading. Okay, so these are the sources of alpha, which you can try and leverage from it. Okay, so Okay, Shreyas has an important question. He says, How will we create alpha and beat 90% of fund managers who are having access to PhD level experts, which is true. So, having too many experts can also spoil the thing, and it's very difficult, so it's very surprising. So, I'll say, I'm not saying I'm not giving you false assurance that Shreyas, you can beat those, those fund managers, but I'm just telling you that it's not like they are some high IQ people, high PhD. It's very difficult to beat them. That's not true. I'll, I'll say that even normal people, simple people, can outperform those PhD and complex people, because they typically tend to think very complex. If it can be done through moving average, they will start thinking of applying a machine learning model, a neural network model, a reinforcement learning model, using sentiment data, using this data, and we'll just spoil the entire thing, because they can think complex things only, right? And you and me would be making money by using simple things like a moving average crossover strategy, so it's not that the degree, which is the PhD, or where they have graduated from, defines success. Success is defined more from your approach on the process which you are going to follow and your rigorous the effort and the intensity which you are going to put into this, so I will not give you a false assurance that you will definitely beat it, but I will say Shreyas, that you and all the people who are there in this classroom do have the ability to outperform in the market. It's just that you have to channelize the effort in the right direction. Zubin says market gurus, I will be very skeptical about that. Zubin, maybe you are mentioning that in a more sarcastic way. So maybe in a news channel, which I was watching recently, a very popular news channel, a business news channel, brought an astrologer onto the TV channel, naming it as Market Guru, and he started forecasting on the basis of where the planets are, where the sun and moon is, and which stocks to buy, whether you should go long on oil, short on oil, whether you should buy silver, gold, and all those things. Very skeptical about market gurus who are coming on TV, but yeah, some of them will be genuine, and if you truly follow them, then yes, that can also become a source of alpha for you. Ah, Shreya says alpha typically decays in three to six months, which is true. It can decay in three to six months, or it cannot decay.

Speaker 1  1:03:52  
So, some of the things, which are written here, which is trend following momentum, they are there since a very, very long time shares, and those alphas are somehow not decaying in such a short period of time, but some anomaly, which would be there, would decay faster, so some would decay faster, some would decay not so faster, and that's the whole idea. You keep on reinventing your whole strategy, keep on modifying it, and make it production and live trading ready. Amit says, Can you share the link where you open the research paper? Yes, definitely. I can share that. So I'll just go your copy and how to share this, so Okay, I hope this would have received you would have received this link. If not, you can write back to the support team, and we would be very happy to help you. Okay. Ah, sharing the research paper links with everyone. Okay, so in says book authors, yeah, book authors are generally good, tangible source of information, like similar to academic research, book paper, book authors, research journals, someone who is spending time and investing and writing, doing some presentation seminars in a, in a good way, showing all the evidence, and so on, so forth, would be a good source of

Speaker 2  1:05:30  
alpha.

Speaker 1  1:05:34  
Shreyas is Aswad Damodar and valuation guru for past 40 years on CNBC US. So we have mixed of things, right, Shreyas. We have good people, we have bad people. So we should be careful about maybe you are following Ashwa Tamadharan, so that's you can vouch for it. Someone might follow someone else, then they can vouch for it. But in general, you should be skeptical about people who are coming on TV channel, so that you are not misled into some wrong information. Jesse says trend following strategies require a lot of diversification, especially with futures, which I completely agree with you, Jesse. So, so, yeah, this is about the source of alpha. Now, what we are going to do is that we'll now going to take this particular idea, which is, if market rises for two days, then it will continue to rise. So, let's say this is based on my own personal observation, and I want to continue and back test this particular idea. So, basically, back testing is more like going back in time and evaluate whether this strategy would work or not, but sharing this vague ideas will not help me back testing properly, right? Just saying January effect, or just saying this mean reversion, or just saying if market rises for two days, then it will continue to rise. Computer will not understand, AI might understand, computer will not understand, and it will say, "Okay, what should I do? How do I measure the two days? How do I measure this? How do I measure January effect? What it is. So you have to clearly define, so that computer can understand. So here I've converted my expression into a properly testable hypothesis. Sorry, I've created an expression for my hypothesis, which is, if market rise for two days, then it will continue to rise. So I am saying that if moving average of two days is greater than moving average of seven days, then I will buy. So I have translated my hypothesis into an expression, which can be fed into a program like Python. Okay, so let me show you the code for it. So we have this price. Now is the time to define that moving average. So I'm saying that short look back period is two days, long look back period is seven days. Where did I got these numbers? Purely based on the experience, the first alpha source own experience. I am able to get this information, which is of two and seven. So, I'll pass this two and seven and the data to the moving average crossover function. So, moving average crossover function is in alpha.py It calculates exponential moving average of the long and the short look back period. It calculates the signal, which is short greater than long moving average, and will return back me the signal. So I get the signal. I also plot that signal here. Somehow, yeah. So I'll plot the signal here. So, as you can see here, I'm getting some long and short, so these are my various legends are here. So this light blue line is my close price. So let me show you in a smaller thing. Okay, so this light blue color line is my close price. The dotted line is the long moving average, and this blue line is the short moving average. Green indicates a long. Okay, so let's analyze this particular trade. So, green indicates a long position. So, as you can see here, the dark blue line, short moving average, went above the dotted line. So, this is the next candle we had this long position, and then this short moving average went below the long moving average, so we had a short signal, so we entered here, we sold here, and this would have been almost like a fat flat trade, which I would have experienced. Okay, so there are some whipsaws, like there are some maybe incorrect entry signal, but this one particular trade has made good amount of money, so in a way it is working, but still there is a room to improve this strategy. So I'm not looking at the full data and trying to optimize it. This is only 100 days of data, which I'm looking at, and I feel that only moving average is not.

Speaker 1  1:09:59  
Not sufficient, because typically a single source of alpha is not sufficient, so I'll try to bring in one more indicator, which is an adx, which will tell me the strength of the trend. So then I'm hoping that I'll be able to eliminate all this false false signals from it, so I'll compute ad x, which is same like this. This, so I have calculate ad x function. It will calculate ad x once the ad x is calculated. I'll say that has to be greater than the threshold value. If yes, then buy. Otherwise, don't buy. Okay, so now I have two sources of alpha one is the moving average crossover and other is adx. Now with this two sources of alpha, there are four combination. Moving average will say no, ad x can also say no. Moving average says no, ad x can say okay, there is a strength, please do it. Moving at it says by ADX, says there is no strength, and both of them can say yes. So I am in a dilemma. What should I do? Since I am bringing both the exports together, I'll say that only when both of them say buy, then only I'll be buying in this particular stock. So I'll be simply doing a multiplication of this two, and we'll get to the final trading signal, so it will be zero in the first three cases, and it will be one in the final case. Okay, so I'll have buy signal only when both of them say yes. So that is what I have done, as you can see here. That is what I have done in generating the final signal. So I multiplied the moving average signal with the ADX signal, and then the final signal is being stored in this signal column. Okay, now this is how it looks like, so let me run. Yeah, so this is how the signals look like. So I was able to overcome all this bad, bad, bad signals, and this particular one long trade, which actually work for us, is working per year, also right. And there is one wrong signal here, but this is fine. I guess I was able to overcome most of the signals, which are not working. So this is alpha, which is there, and now is the time to back test this particular strategy. But before that, let me check for any questions. Shubham says it was amazing to see you in Stockage Conclave in Goa. So nice to hear that, Shubham. You are also there in Goa. Shreya says, could you also demonstrate mean reversion hypothesis? Yes, we can go there, but let me first finish that at the end of the session. Maybe we can take up that. So, maybe mean reversion strategy can be implemented using some of the indicators. So, maybe let's say, if you are a believer of RSI, then instead of moving average, you can take RSI, you can calculate RSI, and generate your trading signal out of it. So I would say that you can try modifying this alpha, bring in those moving average, sorry, mean rewarding indicators, it can be Bollinger bands or something of that sort, generate the signal using that, and rest of the steps will be the same. So, you can give it a try. If we get stuck, we are always here. Two seven appears like a high frequency trading, not necessarily this two and seven is in terms of days, two days greater than seven days. So, these are low frequency or a medium frequency trading strategy money content says most of the indicators are lagging in nature, and when we use it as a feature for machine learning, will still be lagging in nature. Do you have any other option except that using the lagging features or indicators? So, as we were discussing in the terms of data, you have plethora of data, which is price data, fundamental data, sentiment data, economic data. So, data like when the earnings are going to announce, when the Fed is going to have meeting, all of this data combined together will give you that leading, lagging, all those kind of an information which can be used to create much more complex and sophisticated trading strategy. Okay, so we have the alpha, which is now ready, and we have also determined when to buy, when to sell. We haven't, so let's define that.

Speaker 1  1:14:55  
So, whenever both.. sorry, we already defined that. So, when. You have two alphas, then it is easier, but let's say if you have more alphas, let's say you have alpha one, you have alpha two, and up to alpha n, then following that approach that all the alphas should say yes, then only you will be buying will result in a very few signals, maybe one or two signals in a year, so in that case, what you can go for is one approach is majority voting, so you say that if majority of them say yes, you will go ahead and buy particular stock, so that is one approach of majority voting. Second approach is weighted majority, so weighted voting, whatever, so if you feel that alpha one is my favorite. It does not disappoint me most of the times. I'll give a weightage of 60% and if you say that alpha n is most disappointing, but still I want to keep in the team, so you give a weightage of 5% and then you multiply with their prediction. So this is weighted voting approach, which you can follow, then how you can come up with this weights, so this weights can be based on the individual alpha performance, it can be based on sharp ratio, draw down returns, or whatever metrics you want to track, and proportionately you can compare it, relative comparison can be done with other alpha to come up with this weights, so that's about combining different alphas together, and once you have combined together, then you have to evaluate the performance of the strategy. So you're there are different, like this is the performance daily returns of the strategy, and this is how the equity curve looks like. So let me run this, so that the chart becomes bigger. Yeah, so this is the equity performance, as you can see here. Initially, it is struggling quite a lot, right? So it's almost like a flat strategy. That one trade, which we were analyzing, actually worked well, but post that it was almost like a flat. Then there was this rally period during this phase to this space from 2020 to 2025 This strategy was working quite amazing, and now suddenly this strategy is again in a sideways zone since last one year. Okay, so you can analyze this, and if you don't want to plot this, you also can use Pi Folio. So Pie Folio will help you create all the metrics which you are interested in, like this, and then you can simply analyze this from multiple angles, like cumulative return, sharp ratio, underwater plot. Someone might be interested in doing trade level analysis also, so this particular code will give you trade level analysis, so as you can see here, how many trades were done, which trades were profitable. So the first trade brought us a profit of 50 rupees, and then you can evaluate how the strategy is performing. Okay, but one of the most important things which people forget is the transaction cost. So this is pre-transaction cost. My returns are 236 rupees. If I add transaction cost, which is brokerage tax and all other things, so my post transaction cost, the returns drop from 236 to 206 so almost a drop of 20 rupees, which is approximately 10% of a return, is going in transaction cost, which you can imagine how significant the transaction cost can be. Okay, so now I just want everyone to take their thinking cap on, and you have to imagine that today is your first day, and you have joined a con hedge fund, and your first assignment is that this is my existing trading strategy in the fund. Can you help me reduce the drawdown of the strategy? Can you help me improve the strategy performance, and if not, at least help me increase the sharp ratio. So, sharp ratio of this particular strategy is what, 0.52 So, can you share ideas which you will implement to increase the sharp ratio, or draw down, or volatility, or improve the strategy returns? Can you throw the ideas I You can write your answer in the chat box, you Okay, Jesse says. Most of the strategies just collapse after the transaction cost, and that is a fact, right? And therefore you should always consider transaction cost, because there is nothing like free lunch, free trading in this world.

Speaker 1  1:20:12  
How to implement Asian session, and you can other session-based trading. Yes, we can connect afterwards, or maybe you can write back to us to discuss different avenues, but yeah, coming to this question on how to reduce the drawdown or improve the strategy performance or increase the sharp ratio, so Jesse says to reduce drawdown, modify the stop loss, or add the stop loss. Basically, okay, so let me write the responses which we are receiving. So one is on the risk management side, so maybe one suggestion is stop loss, that is from Jesse Kushal. Says Kushal Patidar says add stop loss. So one more on this stop loss side, start to add capital based stop loss to minimize drawdown. So one more for stop loss. Okay, what next? Ah. can we keep a threshold like if price moves only certain percentage will enter the trade to buy, so maybe someone is suggesting to modify the entry signal, so maybe entry signal is suggesting one idea. I would look at stock with lower daily volatility, so someone is suggesting ideas on the universe selection. He says that add some filtering criteria before selecting the stock. Okay, so that is one level of optimization, which we can do. Entry, somebody saying this, someone saying regime filters, someone is saying threshold filters, so basically, or try to optimize the entry, someone is saying position sizing, risk management, and all the stuff. Okay, what is someone is giving suggestions on position sizing, which is wall-based. It can be Kelly criteria. It can be a lot of ways in doing position sizing for this particular trade. Someone is saying buy only low volatility stocks, reduce number of traits, maybe modify the entry condition to reduce the number of traits, so one more for this, and look at different alphas separately, so someone is suggesting this alpha one, alpha two, alpha three, and look at them separately, and then see what the difference it is, and combine them later on. So, maybe look at RSI alone, look at moving average alone, look at machine learning models alone, look at different ideas alone, and then see what is happening. Okay, someone is saying change the parameters of the existing indicators, so we have ADX and moving average, you change the parameters of ad x and moving average. Fair enough, we can play around with that. Look for other indicators, which is get more indicators, reduce the number of traits which are taken, time of entry day, which is again to do with entry signal, exit signal, Narayan says work on your execution algorithm. Okay, that is a new point. So he's asking to work on execution algorithm, which is also can add few bits of alpha for me. So Shubham says check your exit, it should exit in trend. Someone is saying reduce the transaction cost, because that can collapse the strategy. Someone says only implement in momentum phase of a trading session, analyze different phase, and only implement in momentum. Someone is saying parameter optimization, parameter swip, and I guess all the responses are more or less on this lines only, which says start with the universe, which is filter on low volatility stock, so that is one agenda. Second is work on entry exit, you can have new indicators, try to optimize the existing ones, so try to optimize the existing ones, or bring on new indicators, rigid filters, and so on, and so forth, so more play with entry and exit. Okay, some of them are suggesting risk management, add stop loss, take profit, and all those things. Someone is saying execution, I. Algorithm, which can add few basis points of profit, and someone saying position sizing, like don't put all your capital in one go, maybe put 20% or based on volatility, Kelly criteria, and so on, and so forth, come with a better position sizing algorithm to help increase your sharp ratio.

Speaker 1  1:25:20  
Okay, so all of these points are well taken, understood, and would I say may or may not help you achieve the outcomes which you have, but these are good starting points on your day one to help improve the strategy return, but since this is a momentum trading strategy, right, forget about the indicator which I am using, I can put in some sophisticated super trend indicator, or if you want, I can create a more complex strategy, right, but my focus will then shift to explaining what the strategies, how did I come up with that indicator, and how you can replicate that, right, but the focus of this session is on the process, the workflow, and ideas to improve your strategy. Right, so one of the most easiest and powerful and effective way of improving your Sharpe ratio in momentum strategy is actually to just diversify, right, diversify your portfolio. If you would have noticed, we are currently only dealing in one single stock, which is LIC Housing Finance. If you simply take the strategy as it is, right, don't modify it, keep the strategy as it is, and run this strategy on multiple stocks. Okay, so I'm just opening the notebook, so without doing anything, just running the same strategy, but rather than on a single asset, I'm running on a set of assets. These are just randomly selected assets. I can be more thoughtful on how I want to select the assets, but this are just randomly selected asset, the time period is same, everything is the same, and the strategy is also the same, like two seven, and the ADX is at 20. These are actually exponential moving average, ADX is 20, all those things. So we have started back testing the strategy, we have the returns from each of the stock, and now we visualize that just by doing that small twick, some of them will work, some of them will not work, but as a portfolio, if I combine together, I am able to increase the sharp from 0.5 to almost approximately to one, almost a increase of 100% in sharp ratio, and the reason for that is, in a momentum trading, most of the stocks are, if you are able to bring loosely correlated stocks together, some of the stocks might be performing well in some periods, some of them might not be performing, so they may be able to help each other out in order to have a longer run very good performance for the portfolio on an aggregate basis, so because of this, my volatility will drastically reduce compared to a single stock portfolio, and therefore that will cause a huge jump in the Sharpe ratio, and because the volatility reduces, this also gives me confidence to take a small amount of leverage to increase my returns as well. So this is how the equity curves looks like now with the combined portfolio, where now you're not relying on a single stock but a set of stock. There's a rolling sharp ratio. This is the drawdown curve. So one of the most important things, which I like to take you away from this particular first of the session, is that diversification is a very powerful tool in a momentum trading strategy.

Speaker 2  1:28:49  
Let me check for any questions.

Speaker 1  1:29:00  
So, why not execute the strategy on Nifty 50 stocks? You can do this, shares, or maybe I would say that do this in commodities market. So, in commodities market, one stock is very different than another stock. So, if you take Lean Hog, if you take crude oil, if you take gold, silver, all those behave in a very different way. So, if you Nifty 50, they have a degree of correlation, right? Most of the stocks are falling since last five days, but if you bring this to commodities market, you will see the benefit, like nothing like anything. Agree, Gupta says, could you please suggest some other trading ideas? So, agreeing, this strategy, this session is not about trading ideas, right? If I get into trading ideas, then I'll miss out on communicating important points, like including transaction cost, how you can enhance the return of momentum strategy. What are the steps to follow? Why screening is important. Why you should not be trading on low liquidity stocks, right, and. The second half will be taking a research paper and discussing a particular trading strategy that is beyond Bollinger bands, beyond moving average, beyond the commonly known strategies which you are aware of. So, does that work again? Do you understand the objective of the first half? And in the second half, we are going to take another strategy. So, this was deliberately kept simple, so that the focus does not shift to the strategy, but the focus shift on the process, the approach, and the common mistakes, which are typically done. You should not repeat them. Nowadays, commodities are very risky than stocks. I'll say commodities were always risky than stocks, because no matter, someday something will happen, and the silver will rally, the crude oil will fall down, something or the other. So, commodities is anyways a riskier market, and we should be very careful about it. So, my recommendation is not to trade in commodities market unless and until you have some or the other experience of knowing the volatility, which you can expect from there. Yes, we can select 200 stocks. So, 200 is a long list. Maybe you can just try to replace 200 stocks, which are here, which you can simply add here, which should work. I feel the code as it is. If you are just able to add the ticker of this nifty 200 stocks, it should work like this, Shreyas. So, and one more important point is, you should not analyze the return, sorry, strategies only from returns perspective. You should analyze from multiple angles, like what is the Sharpe ratio, volatility, sort, you know, ratio, max drawdown, and take a holistic view on the strategy, rather than a single, like, returns are good, strategies good, returns are bad, strategy is bad. So, with this, we come to the end of the first half of this session. Now, we take a break of 15 minutes, so the time in India here is 532 so we meet back at after 15 minutes, which is 547 547 Um, yeah, welcome back everyone. Sorry for a little bit of delay, so now we'll start with the second part, where we are going to work on a research paper, which is betting against beta, and before that we are just going to talk about some of the concepts here, so Oh, yes, my bad. It's 547 Let's wait for some time, and we'll resume back. Thanks for highlighting. Shares.

Speaker 3  1:47:00  
Hello, everyone, and we are back after the break for the second half of the session. Somehow I thought time for the break was 537 to resume back, so, but yeah, thanks for highlighting it. It's 547 so, so, yeah, we are now starting the second half of the session, where we'll be talking about a research paper, which is betting against beta, and we're watching how to implement that particular strategy, but will not

Speaker 1  1:48:00  
go in a very straightforward way. We'll first talk about the concept, understand the logic behind why this particular strategy will work. Then we'll try to back test the strategy and evaluate the results ourselves, whether this strategy works or not. Okay, so let's begin the second half of the session, so Okay, so there are two kinds of risk, which, which typically an investor face. One is idiosyncratic risk. So this risk are specific to a firm. For example, a strike in Maruti plant in Manesar will only have impact on the production of Maruti, the sales of Maruti, and the stock price of Maruti. It will not have impact on other car companies like Mercedes, Kia, Hyundai, and other car manufacturers, right? Or maybe not even other companies like Reliance, Shell, Apple, Amazon, and Microsoft, that risk is having a strike in the plant of a particular plant is only very specific to a firm. It does not impact the whole market, and people say that it can be easily diversified away. So, I will not compensate you for the idiosyncratic risk, which you are taking, which is in, you can easily diversify away by investing in multiple stocks, but there is other kind of risk, which is systematic risk, which is market wide. It affects all the firms, it cannot be diversified away, and they are saying that I will compensate you for the systematic risk which you are taking, I will not compensate you for the idiosyncratic risk or the unsystematic risk, which you are taking. So, can anyone think about what kind of events or things would classify under systematic risk? Okay, Shreya says donor drug is a systematic risk, which I completely agree with you. Next is COVID. COVID is a prime example of systematic risk, legal prohibition. Okay, maybe war is a systematic risk nowadays, because of this war between two powerful countries, is definitely a systematic risk. War between Russia and Ukraine has nowadays become a norm, and people are not even reacting to it. So, taper tantrums, 2008 financial crisis, macro events, pandemic, that is all systematic risk. Government policy, I'll not say necessarily a systematic risk, because it can impact a particular country. As such, it might not impact global economy, unless it's some US, which is coming up with a tariff policy, and then it can have systematic repercussions, but for example, India taking some particular policy that risk can easily be diversified away by investing in foreign lands. Fed leadership may be partial impact on that elections again in a dominant or a g kind of in geography might have an impact, but most of the elections I haven't seen too much of an impact where all the firms are falling together, so I'll not say Anusha that elections are having a huge kind of a systematic risk for us. Idiosyncratic risk is Maggie for Nestle, that's correct. Economic slowdown, yes. If the global economy slows down, then that's a systematic risk for everyone. That is true. So these are all examples of systematic risk, and Zubin was mentioning that of a strike in Maruti plant will impact auto ancillary only if Maruti is the only supplier. Sorry, Maruti for them, Maruti, they are supplying only to Maruti, but if the auto ancillary company is supplying to multiples, multiple OEMs, original equipment manufacturers, then they also don't have any idiosyncratic risk if the plant shuts down typically the Great Depression. Yes, so all those major events, as you have understood, got the understanding that is a systematic risk, and that should be compensated. Okay, Neil Dala says, what about sectors such as memory stocks have been rising, falling together, so those are idiosyncratic risk, which is impacting Nvidia or certain small number of things, because I can easily diversify those risks away by investing in different sector or other things. Systematic risk is something that it's very difficult to diversify away, and it affects all the forms, so therefore I need a compensation for that. Aramco drone attack also do syncretic risk. Yes, that is correct. Metals gold and crude oil. Okay, Anusha.

Speaker 1  1:53:18  
So, so, yeah, we can watch for them also, but typically gold crash metals crash crude or crude oil seems like if you block the crude, which is not flowing from straight of almost, then yes, eventually it can cause systematic risk, but I am thinking that is more to do with, yeah, that event can be considered as a systematic risk, because that is going to impact quite a lot of economies and will have wider repercussions. So, yes, Anusha, crude oil is right, the blockage of crude oil, or the supply of crude oil, if it's not able to meet the demands of global economy, then yes, it can have systematic risk and impact. Okay, so we all understood what is systematic risk, war, tariff, everything. Right now, you need to be compensated for it, but it should be in proportion to the risk which you are taking. Someone who is taking more risk should be compensated more. Someone is taking lesser risk should be compensated lesser. That is a common ideology, but for that we need some measure of the risk itself, right? How do we measure systematic risk? And for that we have beta. So, so there are what is beta? Now you might have that question like what is beta, so let me open this notebook to explain beta. So beta is measure of stock volatility or systematic risk. If beta is one, then you can say that you are as good as market, you haven't taken any systematic risk. If beta is. Is greater than one, then you say that your stock is more volatile than the market, you have taken more risk than there. What is there in the market? If beta is less than one, you have taken lesser systematic risk than the market. So one of the key things is, how do we calculate beta, so for that I'm downloading the data for Nifty, which is one of the benchmark here, and Nestle India, which is part of that benchmark constituents, right? So both the data are downloaded using this get stock data method, so we have data for both of them, and this is the formula for beta, which says that stock returns are nothing but alpha plus beta times market returns. So, if I plot the returns of Nestle and Nifty and draw a line to it, the slope of this line is nothing but beta for me. Okay, that is per is this formula, which is stock returns is equal to alpha plus beta times market returns. This is one of the formula to calculate beta. There is also another formula, but this formula is sufficient in our use case, where we are trying to calculate beta. So, here is a quick visualization. So, we have the sensitivity plot, so if, as you can see, your nifty is falling by almost like 14% whereas Nestle is only fallen by 7% for this particular data point. 14% drop in Nifty for is only matched by minus 7% drop in Nestle, so only on base of this it seems like Nestle is a less volatile stock than Nifty, and the slope also looks like that, only so let us quickly check using the method which we have created, so we'll be calling OLS method, which is ordinary less square method to fit the line to it, where we are passing Nestle and the Nifty data to it, we fit a line to it, and lines line dot param zero will give me the beta value. So beta comes out to be 0.53 And another way to interpret this is that if Nifty falls by 14% Nestle will only fall by 7% So that is how you can understand the sensitivity of this particular stock, is or in other terms, how the beta is okay. So Shubham says beta is equal to coefficient of regressive predicted line. Yes, that is correct. Beta measures systematic or undiversified risk. Yes, so those are the key outcomes, which you can take away from what is beta and how to calculate it. Okay, if you are interested more about reading, you can refer to this particular link to read more about beta. So, here are some of the interpretations of beta: so, greater than one, more volatile than market. For example, India Bulls Housing Finance, Kotak Bank, ICICI Bank, Tata Steel - all these are examples of Apple stock, Tesla.

Speaker 1  1:58:11  
All these are examples of more volatile than market. As volatile as market, they move in similar tandem to market, like Asian Paints, less volatile than market stocks like Colgate, Palmer, live, Nestle, ah, FMCG companies, where the business is very predictable, they are typically less volatile than the market, not correlated to market. These are small cap stocks, they have their own brain and they behave very in a different manner. And nowadays gold also is having negative correlation to the market, gold price are rising, whereas markets are falling. For example, in a very short period, it's very difficult to judge, but in saying, in a longer run, you might find that gold might have negative correlation to the market. And VIX is a classic example, typically, whenever the market falls. So, currently, market are falling, right? So, let us quickly check the VIX. So, VIX has increased, right? VIX has increased by 13% and in last five days it has increased by 26% and if I compare this with S and p5 100, oh, there used to be some comparison thing, but yeah, if I compare this with SNP 500 then you would see that SNP 500 is so in last five days VIX is up by 26% whereas SNP 500 in last five days is down by 3% right? So we can see there is a negative correlation between between VIX and the benchmark indices. So, what is this strategy all about? Right, so the source of the strategy is Betting Against Vita by Andrea Fazani, I. And Lasse Patterson, so this both are gentlemen from AQR, and they have written this paper where they are describing this particular anomaly in quite detail. Okay, Shreya says, "I am from non-coding background. How to know which Python function to use, that's a good question. Maybe let me try this. I haven't tried this. I'm just trying it for you. I want to calculate beta for Nestle India, which is part of Nifty share the Python code to calculate beta by recreating the response. Okay, let us see. So, I haven't tried this, Shreyas. I'm just trying this only for you, since you mentioned that I am from non-coding background. How to know which Python function to use? So, I'm just trying with a very novel and innovative solution. Maybe if we can get the answer. Yeah, so it got the formula right, which is returns of Nestle is equal to alpha plus beta times return of Nifty, which is perfect, and the code is also there. And okay, so it's using a linear regress line regress method, which is also fine in a way, like you don't necessarily have to use OLS. So yeah, this is one way of getting to know of how to calculate beta without having that with having that non-coding background, you can simply then use this particular code, and this is the function which you can use in that case. Okay, if you have bet against beta strategy in PDF, I can email you guys if you need. Okay. All right, let me teach you this particular strategy first. Then, Jesse, maybe you can share. So, what is this strategy all about right, so please everyone pay your attention here, because this is the most important thing nowadays in the age of AI, is the thinking part, and knowing which things are working and which things are not working. So let us focus on this particular thing. Okay, so beta is a measure of risk that cannot be reduced by diversification and has to be compensated, so what happened is we have a very famous model, which we call it as CAPM model, or CAPM model. So, CAPM model says that return from any particular stock is equal to risk-free rate in the economy plus beta times the excess return in the market over the risk-free rate, so it's a very famous formula, which I've just written, which is known as CAPM, Capital asset pricing model, and what it says is that the stock returns is equal to risk-free rate plus beta times market returns minus risk-free rate. Okay, so if I assume I'm just assuming I know it is not zero, but I'm assuming if risk-free rate is zero. Okay, so this return from stocks are going to be approximately beta times market return, right? Everyone with me on this?

Speaker 1  2:03:53  
If risk-free rate is zero, then returns from the stock would be equal to market returns because okay, someone needs an explanation, so just that, so because this will become zero, so this whole term will go away, and this will also become zero, so then we are just left with beta times RM, okay, so return from stock is equal to beta times RM, right now, if I know a stock like Apple, so return from stock Apple would be equal to, let's say, beta is 1.5 and market returns of S and p5 100 is, let's assume, 10% which are there, so expected return from Apple is 15% correct. So, as you can see here, the higher the beta, higher the value of beta. If this increases, higher is going to be my expected return from the stock. If the beta is two, my expected return will become. 20% if beta is three, my expected return will become 30% So this is the model which is taught in all B school, which is used across the research industry, which is used by many, many, many of them. What they see this as a signal is that a stock having higher beta is more lucrative, is because with the same amount of capital I can get more out of it. If I'm going to get more out of it, I better go after that. So that is the typical mentality of most of the people, including the mutual fund managers, retail investors, everyone. And because of this, the stocks having higher beta typically become overvalued, and therefore this is an anomaly. This is an opportunity for us to exploit where what we are saying is that instead of loading up on high beta stocks, which anyways mutual fund and retail investors are doing, will do slightly different. We will actually load up on low beta stocks because they are undervalued, so buy low beta stocks will go against what the common understanding is in the market, where we'll buy low beta stocks because they are undervalued, because no one wants them, no one wants to buy Nestle. Do you see anyone purchasing Nestle doing a bull market, they will laugh at you. They will say, "Are you crazy? Are you mad? Why are you not buying Apple? Why are you not buying Google? I'm not buying Nvidia, for example. So, typically the low beta stocks becomes undervalued, and this paper says it is an opportunity because mutual fund and retail investors are constrained in leverage. Do you have you seen any retail investor going to a bank asking for a loan and say, I want a loan to invest in stock market? Will bank give such kind of a loan? Most likely no, because then they know that the higher there are higher chances of default. So retail investor cannot leverage, they cannot say that I have a capital of 100 million and I will invest worth of 300 million, no one will give them that kind of an leverage, so they are constrained in a way. Similarly, mutual fund have some mandate to maintain, so they cannot go overboard, so the only way for them to increase the return, and thanks to the CAPM model, is to bet higher on the higher beta stocks. This causes them to become overvalued, and this creates an opportunity or anomaly for us to load up on low beta stock and actually experience a better returns from it. So, this is what paper is saying. This is not what I am saying, and we have to then verify whether what the paper is saying is true, currently it holds or it does not hold, and all those things, but before we go on on implementing and checking whether this particular strategy will work or not. Do you have any questions? Okay, Deep Desi says, but liquidity of this stocks with low Vita will be the b, okay, read that question versus liquidity of this stocks with low vita will be a problem. Liquidity will not be a problem because I'm talking with likes of Nestle. Nestle is one of the part of Nifty, as you have known, and Nestle is having a beta of 0.53 It's a low beta stock, part of highly liquid, one of the highly liquid stocks, which are trading. So, I'm, and the strategy is not about buying micro cap stocks, penny stocks, which are highly illiquid.

Speaker 1  2:08:35  
The strategy is about buying low beta stocks, which are part of S and p5 100 or Nifty 50 or Bank Nifty or good benchmarks, right, but just because they are less volatile does not mean that they will have lower liquidity. Okay, next is Zubin says sounds like a contra investing strategy. I'll say yes, it is a contra investing strategy, because most of the retail investors would be happy on betting on Vedanta, Tata Steel, and likes of Amazon, Nvidia, because they have seen it's given a crazy return, it has given it can give 10% return in a day, so they will, they are bound to load up on that, compared to looking at Nestle, which hardly gives half a percent, 1% return in a day, but that return is more consistent. It's very difficult for a retail to miss that particular thing. So, if you are looking from that eye, that lens of what the crowd is doing and what we are looking to do, then we can say this is more like a contra investing strategy. Shreya says on which website stock beta info is available, so Shreyas will calculate on our own, because we truly believe that that we should have a complete control on how things are calculated, how it is used in the trading strategy. So there are a lot of websites which give beta, but we are not very sure. As a person, of whether they have followed the right way approach of calculating the beta, so we will learn in today's session on how to calculate beta in Python for Nifty 50. Okay, I guess. Any other questions? Any doubts on the strategy I Okay, Jesse. Okay, there are no questions. So, let's move forward and implement this particular trading strategy. Okay, so this is the strategy which we have, and the notebook part of it. So the first part is we are going to load the data of Nifty 50, so we'll go back in time. So Nifty 50 currently has a different constituent of the stocks, and if we go back in time, it would have different constituent of stocks. So I cannot take the constituents of stocks which are currently and then back test this strategy. I have to exactly replicate how Nifty 50 looked like when I started back testing, right? Otherwise, can you name the bias which will get introduced if I take the current constituent of the index and back test the strategy? It's a very popular bias over fitting, not necessarily, because I am not over fitting, per se. Maybe I am doing over fitting, but that is not the true bias name. Come on, everyone. So, huge, I guess. Strength of the class is quite good, and only four and five are answering. It's a simple question, if I understand it correctly. Okay, what about others? So, I got some 10 odd responses, but okay, JC says I missed the question. So, the question is that I want to back test a strategy where I'm going to work with Nifty 50 constituents, right? I'll be working with calculating the beta for each of the constituents stocks which make up Nifty 50, or let's say if it was SNP 500 then each of the stock that make up SNP SNP 500 So, the question is, if I take the current constituents of SNP 500 and create and back test my strategy, then what is wrong in that approach, ideally I should, if I'm doing a back testing of five years, I should go back five years and see what were the SMP 500 constituents at that time, and use that to create a trading strategy. So, what is the problem? What kind of bias I'm introducing by working with the current set of stocks, right? I guess most of you got it right, so I would inadvertently introduce look ahead bias, not look ahead, bias, sorry, survivorship bias in my strategy, because I am only working with stocks which have survived over the point of time, which will create a more rosy, rosy strategy outcomes for me. Right, I'll be ignoring all those which went bankrupt, which were removed from the index because of the underperformance.

Speaker 1  2:13:54  
All those stocks will be excluded, and that will create a very good looking strategy in back testing are very happy, happy, happy, happy people, but in live trading it is going to suffer quite a lot. And this is, remember, this is a very - it might sound silly - this is one of the most important mistakes which people make, and it's very easy to make this mistake. Right? You ask AI to create this strategy, I am very sure it's going to work on the recent set of stocks and create a strategy for you, and if you are not aware about this concept, and using AI very heavily, this particular survivorship bias, it's very easy to ignore. In this case, someone are saying some people are saying look ahead bias, which is also true in a way, because you are looking forward, you are looking to a data which is not available to you, so this can also be called as look ahead bias, but a more popular way to classify this error would be survivorship bias, because you are only trading in companies which have survived through this time. And not looking at any other data, okay. So I went in back in time and took the set of Nifty 50 stocks, which were part of Nifty during that particular point in time. Then I downloaded the price data for all these stocks and stored in a csv file, so this is the name of the csv file, and once I have the price data, the next and important step, which I have to do, is calculate the beta. So to calculate the beta, I have to first calculate the returns, and after the returns are calculated, I will be able to calculate beta, so here I'm calculating returns, so these are the returns of those stocks, and then I'm calculating beta, so beta is nothing but you do a regression like ordinary list square method on the benchmark, and the stock fit a line to it, and the slope of the line is nothing but the beta. Okay, so I call this function calc beta here, and I'm only using the data till 2017 to calculate the beta. I'm not using the full data to calculate the beta value, right? I could have used the data till 2025 As you can see here, I have data till 2025 which is available with me, but I'm restricting my data to only 2017 to calculate the beta. I'm not using the full data, so again, this is used to avoid one bias. What bias it is. Can you type in the Q and A box? So you're right, Zubin will wait for others, two, three replies at least. So by using only data till 2017 and not using the full data to calculate the beta, what kind of bias I'm avoiding currently by doing this I a recency bias, not necessarily over fitting, no need, we are not avoiding over fitting by this, but, but, yeah, this is a classic example of look ahead bias, so previously when we are talking about the benchmark and the constituent, it was more about survivorship bias, and this is more to do with look ahead bias, because I'm looking at the full data and then deciding what should be the beta at a particular point in time, so this is a classic example of look ahead buyers, which is in a very simple language, looking at the full data of the prices, which is available, and then saying that I want to buy today, so looking at prices of April 2026 and then deciding what I want to buy on 27th of March 2026 so that is not possible. So we are doing the same thing. We are looking at the full data, and then saying this, the beta of the stocks, these are the lower beta stocks, and you go long on that. But that information, anyways, while back testing or taking a trading position, I will not have access to that. So I should not be using that in my back testing, otherwise I'm going to introduce look ahead bias in my trading strategy? This sounds similar to survivorship bias, but survivorship bias is more to do with companies where companies, which have survived, you are only using those companies to back test your trading strategy.

Speaker 1  2:18:55  
For example, I know Nvidia has survived so through this time, so I'll be including only Nvidia in my trading strategy. I will not be including some stocks which are bankrupt or no longer in the market, so that is survivorship bias. And this particular is looking into future, looking at the future data, and making trading decisions today is a classic example of look ahead bias. So I hope that distinction between the two of them is very clear to you, Anusha Shreya says, where to get past 10 years of Nifty composition, because Nifty is reconstituted half yearly, so that is right, Nifty is reconsider it half yearly. So, what I typically do is there are there are this press release which are released by by exchange, like an SE, for not only Nifty 50 but for all the other broader sector indices as well. So, in those press releases, they will typically save. Stocks got added and deleted. I have used AI to actually give me exit changes in the Nifty 50 over the time. You can also ask your AI to go through the press release and create that for you, or you can also manually create it, so you can manually find those press release of changes in the Nifty 50 index, and then recreate your portfolio if you're working with SNP 500 Then SNP 500 has some GitHub repo, which I'll just show you, so Yeah, so this list, the current current list of S and p5 100 companies and historical list of S and p5 100 companies since 1996 so this is a good source for SNP 500 companies. If you are looking for that, yes, Sri Aurosh question is quite valid, which I also agree, and just to show you, shares there are press release on changes in 50, so you can easily find this press release, and they will typically have that. Oops, NSC website is very unpredictable, but yeah, typically you will find this in press release, something is wrong in NSE website, but yeah, typically you will find this in the press release that what all changes have happened to Nifty and what is the source for it, so meanwhile I'm just asking ChatGPT

Speaker 2  2:22:00  
give me the PDF changes.

Speaker 1  2:22:12  
Okay, so most likely Chat GPT should give that particular link. Let's see. Okay, Agrin Gupta, Amiga. I'm just taking another question. Agree, says what we are doing, what we are going to do is calculating beta till 2017 and taking trade decision for the remaining data set. Yeah, that is correct. So we have full data set, we have divided that into two parts, maybe you can think one is more like a training part, where we are calculating beta, knowing which stocks to buy and which stocks not to buy, and then using that particular information, and we'll be back doing back testing from 2018 onwards, um Nicole says I currently have problems to get delisted data from Yahoo Finance for my final project work. Why finances ticker don't exist? Maybe you can take up this question with your mentor, he can suggest you few places where you can get it, but I completely agree and have faced this problem, so generally you might have to go to a paid vendor who does have those data of companies which have not survived, also which they can share with you, but your mentor can guide you better in this case, and Shreyas, this is Shreyas and Zubin, this is for you on how to find the replacement. So, this is how you can find the replacement for Nifty 50. So, these two are excluded, and these two are inside. So, Zomato and you were in, and this. So, you just have to backtrace, backtrack this, and go back in time to find that original Nifty 50 list. Okay, so now we have beta, and we have taken care that we don't introduce any look ahead bias, and this is how the Nifty 50 beta values look like for different stocks. Okay, so some of the stocks are having higher beta, so typically banks and banks is having higher than Hindalco commodities who are dealing in commodities like aluminum, steel, they typically have higher betas. On the other hand, companies like IT companies and pharma companies and FMCG companies typically have lower beta. Okay, so let's see. Let's say we want to bet on lower beta, that is what the strategy is all about. So, what we are going to do is that we are going to find that low beta stocks. So, low beta stocks are. Are the stocks which are less than 0.8 where this magical number 0.8 is coming from? That is just I wanted less than one, but that is a parameter which can be optimized. So here I have taken 0.8 but don't take too low of a parameter like 0.5 then you will not leave with quite a lot of stocks. There will be very few stocks on which you can create a trading strategy. In that case, so this is something which you can come up with your own knowledge, or you can optimize this particular parameter. So, with having beta value less than 0.8 or you can also go with a standard value like one. We are having this set of stocks, which is Bajaj Auto, Indus Tower, is already delisted, so that delisted company is currently coming in. Sorry, not part of Nifty 50. Then there is Bosch, Sipla, Coal India, and lot of other stocks, which are making the cut into the low beta portfolio. And let us see the performance, so we have plot performance function, which will plot the returns from 2018 onwards for each of the stock and for comparison between portfolio and the stock itself, right. So this particular function is going to do that. So let me run this. So this is the performance of the low beta stocks. So these are the individual stocks, which are there as a part of portfolio. So, some stocks have done exceptionally well. Oh, this is Infosys. It is struggling now, and there are some of the other stocks, which have done really bad, like Indus Tower, and a lot of other stocks. So, not necessarily all low beta stocks will outperform, but let us check on a portfolio level. Does it hold on? Okay, so this is my portfolio performance. So we have a low beta kind of a strategy, which is outperforming, and this is the nifty returns.

Speaker 1  2:26:56  
So initially there was not much difference in 2018 and in 2019 but during Covid, let us see, so during Covid it actually felt lower, so the correction in this low beta stocks was on a lower end, and the rise was much faster, maybe that is one particular kickoff, or the point which caused the outperformance in the low beta stocks, so why is this important? Because of the mathematical thing, so if a stock falls by 10% so your value goes from 100 to 90. In that case, your portfolio goes from 100, the portfolio falls to 90 for a 10% fall in the value, and to rise from 90 back 200 so that is 11% kind of a jump would be required for you to rise, right? So 10% fall requires a 11% jump in your portfolio value, so the lower the fall, the better it is to rise back from that, but similar case, if the portfolio value falls by 50% let's say it falls to 50, so that's a 50% correction. Now to rise from 50 to 100, you almost need like 100% rise, or the percentage change in this particular stock, just to go back to 100, so typically the advantage of low beta stocks, especially during the crisis situation, is that they typically tend to fall lesser, and that makes them that during the rally post correction they are typically to cope up and perform better during those times, so that is one of the reasons which we can understand from this and similar kind of analysis, which you have to do, like, okay, why there was such a huge performance difference during this period. So this was a rally period, all the stocks were rallying, where the low beta stocks actually rallied quite a lot, so maybe this is certain things, but nowadays, recently, and which I feel is most likely the IT stocks is causing this pain in the low beta stocks, is that they are falling quite a lot, and which is causing little bit of stress in the low beta strategy, so you have to evaluate the strategy from multiple angles, multiple perspective, multiple viewpoints, and assess the strength of it. Just by looking at this rosy, rosy-looking graph will not give you a complete picture. You also have to see which regime the strategy performs, which regime it will not perform, what kind of point, what kind of periods does this strategy perform very well? What are the weakness of this strategy? So, if you start thinking in this way, I'm very sure you'll come up with a much better strategy than this. So, for example, when thinking about this strategy, I was thinking how to improvise this strategy. So one of the thought, which came from my friend, who was sitting, he's an equity research guy, he, he does all this valuation, follows Ashwad Dam, like someone was saying, right, he's a fan of Ashwa Damadharan, he follows all this valuation principle, does the DCF analysis, and comes up with an, with a buy, sell, those kind of a call, right? So he was sitting next to me, and he was looking at this graph, and then he said I was just thinking, what can be done, and he suddenly said that we use return on equity to identify good stocks to differentiate good stocks from the bad stocks. So I said, okay, so let me also try that, so what I did is, in addition to low beta, which is anyways performing well, I thought of adding that return on equity, which is one of the metrics to this equation, so I said return on equity should be at least 18, so this particular set within Nifty 50 are having return on equity greater than 18 and then I selected stocks which are high on return on equity and low on beta to come up with this particular portfolio and then I check their returns, so let us check the returns, so your, as you can see here, the returns are around 3.5 times over the period, and let us see what the returns are by adding the return on equity, whether the feedback from my friend was correct or incorrect. So, let us check. So, these are individual stock performance, and Hindustan Unilever is suddenly struggling in this particular strategy. Okay, what about the portfolio?

Speaker 1  2:31:42  
So, yeah, it's marginally up, it's around 3.8 times of return over the period where previously it is 3.5 So, yes, marginally it has helped to improve the performance, plus in the initial period also it is having some decent out performance, which was not there in beta, in only low beta, so in only low beta it was almost similar kind of performance in the early years. Now the performance seems to be much better, and the fall or the correction is also better, lesser in this. So yeah, from multiple angles, this particular strategy looks decent by adding ROE, but yeah, recent out performance is bad, which I should be concerned about, and analyze the returns, sorry, results for it. So this way I'm just narrating and giving a commentary, so you can think and analyze the performance in this way, but throughout it's a very good, and the difference is increasing over the time, and so on and so forth. And if you don't want to do all this, we have a friendly buy for your package, which will tell you all the details. So this gave 19% return over the past 87 months, and Sharpe ratio is 1.12 draw down is 30% most likely during Covid, and all the other metrics, which you can track, that also performance graph, rolling beta, rolling sharp ratio, and underwater plot. So, yeah, my hunch was right, it was during Covid, the fall is 30% and now this Iran war is again causing that, that kind of a product, so people have started comparing this current fall with the COVID fall, but, but the good, or whatever the part of COVID follows, that the recovery during the COVID was very fast, as you can say that it is much, the recovery was very fast, but this war, which is causing this fall, as I don't know, maybe we have to wait and watch on how things would turn out over the period of time. Okay, so what are the further improvements which you can do on this? So maybe you can do rebalancing of the portfolio, so maybe do quarterly, six monthly, or a monthly rebalancing. So monthly rebalancing, I've experienced also increases the performance of the strategy, which you can try. Also consider diversification, so not only in Nifty, you can try this in US and other markets, and there are a lot of other factors, which you can consider. Return on equity was only one of them. Again, can look at plenty of factors. Then, what is the source of this data? So, you can go to betting against beta, which is not opening for me by, okay, now it opened strange. Yeah, so we'll just quickly open this PDF. Okay, all right. So this is the paper betting against beta, as I mentioned, it's by Andrea Fazani and La Pedersen, both were. At AQR Capital Management, and they have written this paper, and as you can see, the abstract, they say that because constrained investors, which are mutual fund and return, they beat up on high beta assets, because high beta is associated with low alpha, we have found that the paper have found out they actually think about betting against beta, which is long on beta and short on high beta, long on low beta and short on high beta, and they observe significant this, and they say that when funding constraints tighten, when Fed is increasing the rates, when funding is not very easily available, the return of BAB factor is low, but increased funding liquidity that compresses beta towards one, and these are all findings you can read at leisure, but the whole point is what we discussed is that betting against the high beta assets can produce good results. So now let us quickly go to the results, which they have produced in the paper. So this is all data, and how they are doing rebalancing and calculating stuff is all written here.

Speaker 1  2:36:15  
For example, how they are doing this, how they are doing that, but all of them is simplified and given you in a ready-made notebook for you, so these are the returns which they have seen, so they back tested the same strategy in US equities, but here you can think that if in US equities they were like 1000 equities, for example, so they have divided this 1000 equities into 10 different buckets, so let's say there is a bucket one, there is a bucket two, and bucket n. Okay, each of this bucket would have 100 stock, okay? And they will, okay, okay, not they will not divide in buckets, my band, so they have 100,000 of equity stocks. They will calculate the beta for each of this 1000 stocks. Once they have this 1000 stocks, they will do sorting. They will sort by beta, and then they will divide into different buckets, so they will have bucket one, which will have the lowest low beta stocks. They will have beta bucket two, which is having slightly higher than beta one, but lower than others, and they will have bucket 10, which will have the high ranking beta stocks, high beta stocks. So, what they have done is, instead of bucket, let's call it portfolio, so they have p1 to P 10. So, what they are observed is p1 which is stocks made up of low beta. They have observed return around 40% The next best portfolio, the return was around 38% and the portfolio with the highest beta, they are having a return of minus 12% so if you go long on this particular bucket, so long on this and short on this, so you will make up, let's say, 40% from long position and 12% from short position, so that is 52% return divided by two, or maybe let's say 52% These are individual returns, so you will end up making 52% return from this. Actually, you will make 26% return, but that is not important. Basically, you will end up making some money from this particular style, and not only this, assuming you are equally long and equally short, but not only this, in US equities, they have also tried to experiment the same strategy in international equities, and the results were the same, that low beta produced better results compared to the high beta ones, which can be senior, and which all stocks they also tried this in treasury market, they tried this in credit indices, credit indices by maturity and by rating, they tried this in commodities market, bond market, FX market. The results for them were exactly the same in all the markets, which they have tested, and they also produce these results here. So this is one of the anomaly which is there, and we have also seen that it exists in some of the markets, and maybe some or the other form of modified form can still be tested. So, for ROE, the inspiration was this quality minus junk. How to separate the quality stocks from the junk stocks? So, you can refer to that, then some. Screener.in for getting the data off or turn on equity, so so this was the strategy rationale. These are the returns which we discussed. These are some additional reading material which you can refer to. So now just quickly check for questions, if any, I Uh, this is how did you check ROE? So, ROE was taken from screener.in and again, ROE value was.. I went back in time in 2018 What was the ROE value? And I have taken those ROE values for the company. So, screener.in is one of the websites in India for equivalent in US and other international markets, you can consider Finwiz or other Google Finance can also give you the latest data, fundamental data as well. This approach can be applied in market right now. I'll say, please do your own due diligence and see if you are able to produce some modified kind of a strategy, which will work in current market or not, but yeah, I cannot, as a teacher, can give you some financial advice or something of that sort right now. Class inherent ordinance performance.

Speaker 1  2:41:20  
Yes, how does 2017 beta calculation help in March 2026 So, share that, as I mentioned, this is a strategy, a demonstration that you calculate beta, you do that without avoiding those complexity of rebalancing, recalculating beta, re-changing the portfolio considered, and so on, and so forth, because the idea is that this is the paper, this is what they are talking, and this is the most simplified implementation on Nifty 50 to demonstrate that power. Now, once you know that this particular alpha is working, the next step is to modify, and that is what I have also written in this particular next steps for the students on what they can do to improve the performance of the strategy. For example, they can rebalance, they can try out on different assets, they will try out on different factors, because nowadays, whatever, even if I would have done all this, they would have asked for, like, why don't you do this, why don't you do that, so that particular curiosity, I don't want to do it, and show it to you. I want you to take the deed there and try to implement it, and you know that we all have one friend who can do things very fast here, which is AI. How to dynamically update stock beta in Python? So that's a very good question, Shreyas. So you can have a for loop, so basically at the end of month you can have a function which says maybe it's end of the month, for example, then you have some functions which is recalculate beta, and then decide which ones to go long on and which ones to go short on, so this can be end of the month, end of the quarter, or semi annually, whatever, and then you shoot out all the functions, so it will recalculate everything, recalculate beta, recalculate ROE, and all those things, and then you decide which stocks you want to go long on, so I hope that answers your question. Okay, let me remove this, so, so there is a short quiz, which I'll just launch, I So just give me a minute, I'm just preparing for a quiz, and meanwhile I'm here to take any questions which you have. So happy to answer those questions. We'll have a short quiz, and we'll close this session post that. Okay, Shreyas is asking which Python formulas to use for dynamically updating stock beta, so you don't have to use Python formulas. It's a simple for loop kind of a thing, where you can say that it will be more like a loop-based concept, which will come here, where you will see that if the date is end of the month or maybe start of the month, in that case you will call those functions and do things for you. So I'm just giving you a small construct there. Uh, okay, so it will be something like this, so you'll have a for loop, and for loop will actually go through each of the dates, so you have date first april, 2 april, 3 april, 4 April, and it will say that if the date is start of the month something of that start of the month, so in that case it will say recalculate beta and pass the related data, which will be only available till that point in time, so you can do some kind of a filtering there, so this is how you can recalculate beta for all those things, so no, for Python formula it's simply a for loop which goes through each state one by one, and it recalculates the beta, okay, so So okay, so now we will have a short quiz, and let me remove this. So everyone ready for the quiz? Just give me a moment, I'll just set this up.

Speaker 3  2:46:22  
Do

Speaker 1  2:46:38  
Just give me a minute, I Okay, yeah, it's now ready, and share my screen, so yeah, to access the quiz, you have to visit this particular website, and don't visit from your mobile phone, because it's not fully working on a mobile phone. So, let me share this particular link with all of you, do Rahul, can you help me share this link with everything from know how to share this? Oh yeah, I can, I Oops, don't I post, but yeah, as you can see on my screen, you can simply go to this particular link, which is, which is there on the so just try to get from from your desktop and don't try to join from your mobile because the performance is better on a desktop, it might not even work on mobile, so we are nine participants. In case if you haven't got the link, I just shared on the chat, also, so you can click that and join this particular quiz, so Please type your name, so that I can understand who is participating, I so if anyone is facing any problem with the link, then let me know. I'll just share the link again. Okay. RF, who is Double A? I guess it's RF. Are you the double A one? Yeah, we are waiting for everyone to join in, so you might see a message that waiting for the host to start the quiz? So I'm waiting for everyone to join, so we have around 24 participants who have joined. I'm just waiting for others to join in, because once I start the quiz, they won't be able to join after that. So I'm just waiting for people to join here. So yeah, you will find that message waiting for host to start the quiz. Okay, now I'm starting the quiz in next five seconds. So, for those who are looking to join, please go to that link and join. If I'm assuming others, if you have got the link, please feel free to join. If you haven't got the link, then this is the link, it's also shared on the chat, it's on the screen, and starting the quiz in next five seconds, so everyone ready, so starting the quiz now, 321, start, so we'll have 60 seconds to answer this question, so a stock phase the liquidity screen, but has the strongest momentum. What should you do? The question on your screen now, so you also get benefit if you answer quickly, so you get higher points, so 13 seconds, 12 seconds. Come on, one person left. Okay, so these are the results. So the correct answer was, you should exclude it, because if it does not have liquidity, no matter how good the signal is, it's not going to perform quite well. So we have this as the leader board, so most of them who scored it right got 500 points. So that's awesome. So we have Kushal, Vermont, Vamsi, Shreya, Samit, Sanvi, Deep, Manikandan, Harsh, Shiv, and a lot of things, right? Lot of other players, so very good, I'll say. And ready for next question. So I'm just starting the next question I Don't use Chat GPT, it's quite easy. Chat GPT will confuse you, I last five seconds I Awesome, almost everyone got this right. So, idiosyncratic risk is something which cannot be diversified away, and systematic risk is something which can be so. So, we have a leader board, and leading on the charts is Kushal, Vertman, Vamsi, Shreyas, Amit Sangvi, Deep Manikandan Harsh, and a lot of other players. Okay, so I'm not next starting the next

Speaker 2  2:54:31  
question, so

Speaker 1  2:55:13  
Okay, one last person left. I'm just closing the timer, okay. Okay, so yes, it is more volatile than the market, and let's see the leader board. So, again, this is the toppers: Kushal, Vermont, Vamsi, Shreyas, Amit, Sangvi, Manikandan, Harsh, Shiv, and MK. So amazing, and next question, so what this question will do. A twist will only give 30 seconds, even though the timer shows 60 seconds. We'll close the quiz in 30 seconds. Okay, let's try this. So I hope it is okay for everyone, if I close this in 30 seconds, because everyone is able to answer that first, I I'm closing the quiz in next five seconds, two seconds, three seconds, and the quiz is now closed. Yeah, so it is the answer C. So, if you run the same strategy across loosely correlated assets, it's going to give you better results, the momentum trading strategy. So now on the leader board we have Verdman, Shreyas, Amit, Manikandan, and Harsh. So all the best for the next question. This also, by the way, the last question, and

Speaker 2  2:57:00  
yeah, I The

Speaker 1  2:57:54  
time is up, and all of you got it right. It's basically combining, and not only from one particular signal, so, so that is the thing, so we have, so it's just sorting, maybe with some logic, but all of them ended on the podium position, which is the first position, so Vadim, Shreyas, Amit, Manikandan, Harsh, you all, five of you are at the first position, because you all have the same marks, which is there, and maybe I'll say on second position we have Raghu number three, Manjunath Dioden Kushal, sorry, Jodhan, and Kushal is on number three, Kushal Vamsi Sankvi Shiv Mk, and we have lot of other players who have participated quite well in this game and scored quite beautifully, so I hope this was our way of making it more fun, is and also sharing the knowledge, revising the concept, and so that the important points does not get lost in a way, so and I'm sorry, Nicolas. It seems like you were not able to take the quiz, so I'm very sorry about that. We'll check the issues you would have faced. This was not the experience we wanted you to have, but seems like some technical glitch would have caused this. So really sorry about that. So, so, yeah, I hope this quiz was good fun, and provided you with a quick recap, and apologies for anyone who faced any kind of a technical issue during the quiz. Ah, Shreya says we should have this quiz for every lecture, so yeah, we'll try this. It's a new initiative, which we have started, so, so, yeah, feedback like this will help our management team to become more active on this front, and you can also share your feedback about all other things also, which you liked, and what we can do, and once again, congratulations to everyone who. Participated in this, it was a good team spirit and a good spirit sport spirits, and very happy to see that a lot of things were retained and people were able to participate in the quiz and get things out of it, and let me quickly check once again for any questions, so there are no questions, so with this it's also 7pm here, so.on time is planned for three hours, so we end the session here, but we are always here. Please write back to us if you have any queries, suggestions, feedback, or anything for us. Thank you. Have a great day. Bye bye.

