Speaker 1  0:07  
Hello everyone. Welcome to this session on REST API for algorithmic trading. This is chair here, and I will be the presenter for today's class. Before we begin, can you guys please confirm if I'm audible? Loud and clear.

Speaker 1  0:28  
It would be great if you guys can just ping on the chat, and I hope you guys can see the PPT as well. Okay, great. Thanks guys for the confirmation. So in today's class, we are going to touch upon and learn another approach to automate our strategies, and this time, we are going to learn how to do it using REST API. Okay, so this is going to be another approach which we can use to create our entire platform to automate trading strategies, or even screeners or any anything of those sorts. Right? So in the first lecture of this module, we learned how to automate our trading strategies using the IB TWS API. This time we are going to do it using REST API. So the ultimate goal remains the same. That is how we can use or how we can automate our trading strategies. The approach differs. Okay. So in this class, we are going to spend time understanding how the REST API works in a in addition to web sockets, which are used for streaming real time data, and having knowledge of these two ideas, or these two technologies we could we would be able to automate our trading operations and automate the trading strategies. So that becomes the core objective of this session. And in order to achieve this objective, we are going to begin our discussion by discussing various fundamental blocks of REST API, what it encompasses of what are, what is its architecture, and how all, how various parts of the REST API works in harmony. Right? Then we will spend significant time in Python understanding how we can connect to a broker, how we can perform various trading operations. And then towards the end of the towards the end of the class, we are going to spend some time on streaming real time information. Okay? So we would be using a bit, bits and pieces of the knowledge that we have covered in the first class that is the synchronous mode of communication and asynchronous mode of communication and those kind of stuff. Okay, so to achieve the objective, this would be our agenda. First, we will be start with discussing the fundamentals of REST API architecture and various components, and then we would move on to the demonstration part. And towards the end of the class, we will go through the web sockets and how to stream real time information from broker. Okay, so this is going to be our objective and agenda for today's class, right? Let me close this and yeah, great. But the question arises is, why should we learn another approach, right? When we already know, when we already understood, and when we already have a sophisticated approach, which we learned in the first class, that is how to use TWS API, if we know that part, if we know one approach, why? Why another approach? Right? What's the what is the benefit? So the answer is multifold. The first thing is, when you know where, when you know how to accomplish a single thing in multiple ways, you could take better decisions when it comes to automating trading operations, right? So if you know how different technologies work in order to achieve the same thing going forward, when you want to automate your trading stuff, you would be in a better position to take decision saying, okay, which would which approach would be more more efficient, or which of. Approach would be more faster, right? And if you know how to how to do the same thing in multiple ways, you would be able to better judge, right, like, which particular approach to go through use. That is one thing. Second thing is, like,

Speaker 1  5:22  
rested, API has become kind of a de facto standard in the trading industry when it comes to automatic strategies. Okay? Now, to demonstrate this part, we can we can see the list of brokers listed on the slide, who supports the REST API, okay? So it means that if you want to build your own trading platform, okay, using a single technology, you could build your own trading platform that could connect to multiple brokers out there. Or consider this scenario wherein you are working on a automating your trading operations, and you want data to be fetched from one broker and orders to be placed on another broker. Or you want to make your trading trading desk, or you want to make your trading platform for tolerant, so you add a third broker on your platform, which will automatically be invoked or which will act as a gateway when your default broker goes down, right so during the market, whether it is a tea or during any any such thing happens in the market, when your broker connectivity goes down, you could of you could hedge your positions with third broker using the same platform. Okay, so on this screen, what we see is like, is a is a non comprehensive list of brokers across the globe supporting the REST API. So this single reason makes learning REST API worthwhile. Okay, so we we see that on the top right, we see a list of broker from the Indian markets, who supports trading, who supports REST API. Likewise, on the top left we see brokers from the international markets supporting REST API, and likewise, on the bottom left we see brokers from the crypto segment who supports REST API, and likewise, the Forex brokers listed on the bottom, bottom right. Okay, so this means that we can have, if we learn a single technology, we could work with virtually any broker who supports REST API out there right now, be mindful that the code won't be same for all the brokers. Okay, that is, the code would still change for multiple when you change a broker, it's it won't be the case that if you write a single code, that single code would be you could use that single code for literally all brokers. No, that won't be the case. However, the way you write the code, the way you connect to the broker, the way you fetch data, the way you perform operations, would be similar. Okay, so keep in mind that REST API, running REST API alone enables you to work with almost all brokers who supports REST API out there, and especially after covid, the REST API or or I would say that if I were to put it this way, especially after covid, any broker who supports algorithmic trading facility almost always provides REST API, so in a way, it has become defective standards. Okay. Now, those who come from the technology background, they would know that REST API is REST API is already a defective standard in the IT industry, right? The IT industry has been using REST API for the past decade or so for virtually all kind of communication, especially after covid. The broking industry has also, has also started supporting it, right? So that is one of the biggest reasons why one should know how to work with REST API, because it does not only allow you to automate your stuff, but anywhere if you go and if you want to communicate data between applications, it is almost certain that you would be using REST API.

Speaker 1  10:00  
Okay. Now, if that is the case, what REST API is not okay, and when it particularly comes to the trading industry, the broking industry. Now keep this in mind that REST API is not designed for high frequency trading. Almost always, it would be, it would be almost always the case that REST API are more suitable for lft or MFT kind of trading. Okay, you could trade up to one second, right, but that would still be considered as MFT. Okay? Now that won't be HFT in any way, right? Another important thing to note about REST API is depending on, depending on how the broker implements or depending on how the broker supports REST API, not all trading operations would be available or would be exposed via the REST API. Okay, so it could be possible that one broker supports 50 different trading operations via REST API, and there would be another broker out there who supports only 20 trading operations, right? So it is, and it would be the case that both brokers have something to offer in terms of technology or in terms of the platform that they are offering to their clients. So could it be possible that if I use a rest if I use the REST API to perform certain trading operations, it might not be available with another broker? Absolutely, yes, it would be possible, right? So before anytime you start working with REST API, it is recommended that you go through the documentation of the REST API and understand what are the facilities available via REST API from that particular broker. So this is something that that needs to be kept. Keep in mind while you work with REST API, right? And the last one is like, REST API is not meant to replace any existing trading avenues, right? Rather, it complements them. So most practitioners, when I say practitioner, I am referring to the retail practitioners who use REST API. They usually use REST API in addition to other trading platform provided by the brokers, like a website or a web portal or the desktop terminal or something like that, right? So what they do is they use their web applications or desktop terminals to view, to view the positions, to view like, how the trading strategy is operating, right? And they automate their core idea. They automate their port trading system via REST API. So REST API tends to perform in an automated in an auto, autonomous way, right? But they use those trading applications like web application or desktop terminal to monitor the actions being performed by the automated system using REST API. Okay, so this is something that you need to keep in mind. Let me see if there are equations, and let me

Speaker 1  13:51  
why the name rest. I will come to that part in a moment. Okay, so people, people are asking why rest, API is not suitable, suitable for HFT because of the simple reasons that when it comes to HFT, the opportunity arises for like few milliseconds. Okay, that is one thing. Another thing is thing, any rest AP that we work with won't be suitable for those sub second latency systems, right? Because most of the time REST API operate over internet at and when it opens, when it operates over internet, the latency, the latencies usually are quite high. They are usually in seconds, okay. Now, when it comes to HFT, the kind of trading systems that the HFT people employ, okay, for example, it could be arbitrage or it could be market making, right over there, the. That the time they spend in market is usually for few microseconds or few milliseconds, right? So under those, under those scenarios, this REST API won't operate, right? The REST API operates over internet, which usually has some overheads attached to it, and as a result, the latency would be very high over there. So if someone tries to use HF, REST API for HFT, what could happen is like the moment they identify the opportunities arise and and by the time they try to take positions or perform some actions right, those opportunity would be vanished, okay? And they would their positions would basically turn negative. So in a sense, rest, API is not meant for those kind of operations. Exactly. Yeah. So as manjuna Manjunath puts it like opportunities arises in sub second levels, and since you are communicating over internet, that is not suitable, perfect. So someone asked, What Works in HFT firms? You HFT firms usually use fixed APIs. Okay, so almost all HFT firms would have their customized platform using C Plus Plus and almost every time they would be communicating with other entities using fixed API, which is, again, kind of APIs. Yep, that's true. They would be APIs, but they have different kind of syntax, and the way they operate would be at different levels. They won't operate at internet. On the internet, they would operate at other levels of the physical card. So, yeah, someone says that, okay, they would be using the FPGA, yeah, that that is also true. So for certain kinds of strategies, they would use FPGA, which is a specialized hardware on which the strategies are, like, I'd say encoded. That's true. Okay, great, moving ahead. Okay, so this is something that you guys already know. What is an API? So this is something that we had learned in the last class. Right? API stands for applicant. Application Programming Interface, right? So this is something that we discussed last time, and you guys also know the definition of it, right? It is a programming it is a programmable interface that supports communication between client and the server in a structured way. Okay? So it it is kind of bridge between two software applications wherein they can communicate with each other in a programmable fashion. Now, what is rest? So rest stands for Representational State Transfer. Okay, so this is the full form of the rest, which is Representational State Transfer right now, remember, like in in the previous class, we discussed that API comes in multiple forms. Okay, APIs

Speaker 1  18:46  
come in multiple forms. The last time the API that we discussed came is in the independent in the form of a Python library. Okay, this time this API comes in the form of HTTP URLs, okay. HTTP URLs, okay. So the point here is this, the way these APIs are designed, okay, the way these APIs are designed. So the developers, when they start designing the API, when they start when they consume this idea. To come up with some kind of API, they need to lay out some objective, okay, they say that, okay, for who are the users who are going to use this API in what particular way these APIs are going to be used, right, and based on the based on these answers that they come with, right, based on the objective of the API, they need to decide how those API are to be coded. Okay, they need to decide how this a. APIs need to be coded, and when they decide the pattern, when they decide, like, how the API is going to be designed, or they how, how they are going to be structured, they need to take certain decisions in terms of, like, what are the classes, what like, what kind of architecture will the API support and what not? Okay, so the idea is, any API, any API out there, who? Any API out there which follows the this listed design principles, okay, which follows the listed design principles, right, which is like uniform interface, and the API should be stateless, the API should be cacheable, the API should be should follow the clients of architecture, right? These principles, any API which follows these design principles, are known to be the REST API, okay? So it is, it is akin to saying, you know, that I am building a house, okay? And I want the house to follow the Roman architecture, okay? Or I want the house to follow the medieval architecture and whatnot. Now, if my if the house that is being built follows the particular style of architecture, we would say that it is a Roman building, or we would say it follows this particular kind of architecture, likewise, whenever any software application is being built, and if that software architecture follows certain kind of design principles. Okay, then those software, those software applications, are known by certain name, okay, likewise, over here, any API that follows this, certain these design principles, they are known as the REST API. Now see being the end users of this API. We are really not concerned about what these design principles are. These design principles are entirely for the creator or the developer of the API. Okay, that it has to have uniform interface. The API should be entirely stateless, right? One should be able to cache the information that when they use the REST API, it should follow the clients of architecture and whatnot. But being the end users, we are really not concerned about what these principles are, right? So keep this in mind that any API that follows certain rest principles, for rest reason principles, they are known as the REST API, right? Okay, now this is what something technically we mean when we say decent principles. But what do we really mean intuitively when we say it is a REST API, see, so one of the decent principles that it has is the it should follow clients of architecture. So we we know that REST APIs are used between client and server, okay, it would be used between client and server. Now we know that almost every time data stays on the server, okay, and the data that remains on the server,

Speaker 1  23:42  
which will be requested by the client. Right now on the server side, the server would have data for multiple variables. So for example, the server could store data for the financial instrument. It could store data for pricing. It could it could store pricing data. It could store account information. It could store PL data and what not so, say for say, for example, if we want data, if we want the PnL data from the server, okay, if we want the PnL data, PNL data, profit and loss data from the server. So this REST API, what it does is very simple. The client will make a request. The client will make a request using the REST API. Okay, it the request will go to the server, and the server will try to parse, like what the incoming request is okay that the server will try to understand what the client is asking. And once the server understands that, okay, it is asking for the PnL data, the server will go and read. The current state of the PnL, okay. Once the server understands that the client is asking for the PNR data, it reads the current state of the PnL, okay, and it simply transfers that PNL state to the client and it represents on the client. Okay, so what is Representational State Transfer? APA, so rest AP is simply, is a mechanism that goes which client uses to make request onto the server. The server will read the state of the data, and it will transfer back to the client, and the state will be represented onto the client. Okay, so represents Representational State Transfer simply means that we can use this API, which is built using this design principles, okay, to transfer the state of some variable from the server and represent it onto the server, onto the client. That's it, right? So there is no any, I would say, objective definition of the rest, rest API. It is more of an abstract definition, right? So this is what we have when it comes to rest API, right? So we already know what is an API, and REST API is. It is a represent, representation of state transfer. It's a philosophy on which the API can be built right and majorly applicable on to the clients of architecture which we studied last time, okay? And it also it proposes the use of request and response. So the last time we we were learning about the mode of communication, we specifically touched upon the client and the server part. Okay, great. India. It is primarily used for synchronous communication. So I hope you guys remember these modes of communication that we discussed last time, the synchronous mode of communication wherein we need to look at the we need to look from the client's perspective, okay, we need to look from the client's perspective. That is, the client could make a request to the server,

Speaker 1  27:36  
the server will respond back to the client. The client will then take appropriate action based on the response received from the server, okay, and then the client will make another request until the response for the new request comes back to the client. The client simply keeps on waiting. Okay, the client does not do anything, the client will simply keep on waiting. And likewise, once the response comes, the client could take further action. It could be sending new request, or it could be processing the data received from the response of the request and whatnot, right? So over here, we need to look from the client's perspective. We are the client. We will we we would be writing code on the client side. So we need to look from the client side and in the synchronous mode of communication, the client is going to basically make request and wait for the response. Make request and wait for the response. So in a way, it at the client side. The communication happens in the synchronous way. Okay, in the synchronous fashion. So this was one of the models, one of the modes of communications that we discussed last time, another mode of communication that we discussed last time is asynchronous. Mode of communication, okay, over where again, we have the client and the server architecture, okay? And the client makes a request, it goes to the server, and the server responds back to the client, right then the client could make any number of request Okay, without the response being received for the request that that has been already sent. Okay. So it could happen that the server that the client is making multiple requests to the server, and the server is working on those request at the same time, and the client also has facilities, but the client is also capable to handle any incoming response at any point in time, regardless. Whether the response for the previous request has been received or not, okay, so in asynchronous mode of communication, what happens is the server the client can make and receive. The client can make request and receive responses at the same time, so the client can also perform things simultaneously. Okay? And it could also happen that, depending on the type of request that the client has made, the server could respond in multiple parts, as we saw for some trading operations in the last lecture, right? It could happen. And it could happen that when the server sends information in multiple parts, it could also send information about multiple requests at the same time, and the client independently can handle those incoming responses and take according and take necessary actions, right? So these were the two modes of communication that we discussed in the last lecture. Any questions, anyone with regard to these two, these two modes of communication. Okay, if not, can you guys give me the example of asynchronous communication, or any, any any example where you guys would have used asynchronous mode of communication. Okay, so I have started so I'm receiving responses. I'm expecting a few more responses from you guys. A thorough hate. Manjunath, Manchu Rago, I'm pretty much sure, like you, almost every one of you have used asynchronous mode of communication. So like, Where have you Where have you guys used these asynchronous mode of communication? Okay,

Speaker 1  32:08  
so someone says, when we are when we are placing a trade, we don't fit the risk. We don't wait for the response to Place another trade. Kishore, it could so again, the example that you just provided that when we place a trade, don't we need to wait for the response to Place another trade. Now it could be this kind of operation could be performed in both ways, okay, asynchronous way and the synchronous way. So let's discuss the synchronous way. First, let's say you are placing a market order. Okay. Now, when you place the market order, you are almost certain that your order is going to be executed. You will get a fill. Okay, so in that case, what is going to happen when you place order, the exchange will give you the order ID, okay? Or the broker will give you the order ID, and that order ID will come back to you, right? And at the same time, you will also get your fills. You will also get the that order, that trade to be executed. Okay, that is first thing. Now consider that you want to place a limit order. Right? When you place a limit order, what could happen is this, when you place a limit order, it is not certain that the order is going to get executed. It could be placed in a limit order book as well. Okay. Now in that case, consider that you placed an order and the order did not execute. Instead, it was placed in the order book. Now if you have used synchronous mode of communication, in that case, the broker will only provide you with the Order ID, saying that this is your order ID, and we have received it, and now you don't know you is the you is the end user. You is the client. Really does not have any idea about the order status. You just got the order ID from the broker. Now you want to check, okay, what's the status of the order status, and you are using synchronous mode of communication, okay? So you place the order, the order went to the broker. The broker gave you the order ID, but you are not sure of what the order status is so you will code something like, you will keep on checking the order status every few seconds to just check the like, what's the status of the order? What's what the status of the order right now, in that case, until your order gets filled. It okay until your order gets filled, you need to keep checking. You need to keep monitoring the status of the order, whether it got cancer, whether it got rejected, whether it got whether it got partial filled, or what not. Right now that is the state of the synchronous mode, right? Because you need to keep checking every now and then, and your piece of the code, or your your piece of the software would keep on engaged to simply check on the order cell, order status. Now this is, this is very practical scenario, okay, and many people do it. Now, there is no harm doing these, like, this kind of checking, okay, that you place the limit order using synchronous mode of communication, and you keep on checking the order status every now and then. This usually works fine, and until you have a scalable system, right? If you're placing two, three orders every, like, sporadically, every now and then. That's okay, but if you have a trading system that places limit orders in hundreds of instruments at the same time, that is not the way forward, right? You You cannot check the order status of hundreds of orders every now and then. And if you keep doing so, your broker will disconnect you. The broker will say that, okay, you are spamming our systems. You are simply sending request to check the status, okay. You are simply pulling the servers. Okay? And it is not something desirable. So in that case, one need to use asynchronous mode of communication wherein you send the orders. Okay? You send the 100 of orders, and then you just ask the broker that, okay, subscribe.

Speaker 1  36:57  
And you just ask the broker use. You just subscribe to the order status, okay? And when you do that, once you place the order, you subscribe to the order orders updates, okay, what will happen is that, as in, when, if there is any activity on any of those orders, right? The broker will notify you. The broker will send you a response, right? And hence, you now don't need to keep on checking the status of those hundreds of orders every now and then. You now will get those updates from the broker, as in, when any activity happens in any of those orders. So yeah, for the example that you gave, we could use either synchronous or asynchronous, right? But most of the time, asynchronous mode of communication would be preferable in those scenarios. Great. Another examples people gave about asynchronous is like fix so, yeah, fix uses asynchronous mode of communication. That is true. Banking transactions, yes, email communication, perfect. WhatsApp, zoom, chat, yeah, all these modern day communication systems use asynchronous mode of mode of communication, I found a way to avoid get banned with zero MQ to build a bridge to bridge, to build a bridge and limit the request. Is that a good approach so zero MQ is not the solution for asynchronous, for the synchronous part, right? So zero MQ basically just so zero MQ is basically a platform right to enable this asynchronous mode of communication, correct? Now that is not something that you that, that you would use to limit the number of requests that you sent, right? So in one of these slides over here, in one of these slides over here, I mentioned that usually brokers will have some kind of API limits. Okay, the broker will tell you that you cannot place or you cannot make more than n number of request per minute or per request, depending on what kind of operations you are performing. So zero MQ will be will make your communication efficient, but it will not make or it will not allow you to restrict the number of requests that you send that this is something that you have to incorporate in your trading approach. Okay. You are okay, great. Okay. What

Speaker 1  40:08  
is asynchronous mode of communication? Can you simplify? Can you could you logically simplify with examples? We discuss multiple examples right shares. So another example could be, say, a are fetching PNL updates. Okay. Now, if you have a strategy wherein you say that once your PNL bridges certain level, you would perform some trading action, okay. Now, in that case, what you could do is like you could check for your PNL every second. Okay? Using synchronous mode of communication, you send the request to check for the PnL, the broker responds with the PnL, okay. And you take action. If you want to take else, you simply skip it again. You perform the same operation next second, okay. If you want to take operation. Action you take it is you keep it repeating every second. Now, what is happening is that when you do this, you are sending some data, you are receiving some data. So there is, there would be, there would be wastage of resources in terms of network, in terms of handling those request at the broker end and what not, right? So a better approach is to use asynchronous mode of communication wherein you simply ask for the PnL updates from your broker. You just say that, okay, hey, you know what I want my PNL updates to be received whenever my PNL changes. So broker knows that you know you you want to get the PL updates whenever the PnL changes. So you are just sending one request, and then whenever your PNL changes, whether it is for the account or whether it is for a particular position, regardless, the broker will keep on sending you the updates. Okay, and you simply keep on listing those updates. So this another, the second approach that I'm talking about is asynchronous mode of communication, because on the client side, on the client end, we don't know when the broker will send a new piece of information, when the broker will send new penal update, we don't know that part. And as a result, we need to have that capability in our program that keep that can keep on listening the incoming data from the server, and as in, when the data is received, we need to parse that data. And we could go ahead and we could take some action. Okay, so that's the example of asynchronous mode of communication. In Manual trading, broker automatically sends live PNL during market hour. Then why use for lft? No, so, actually, so when you say in manual trading, broker automatically sends live PNL during market hours. So that's actually you are. You are correct. You're partially correct in a way that the web application that you use Okay, the software application that you use, they actually do the same thing when you log into the mobile application or when you log into the web application of your broker, right? That login process in the under the hood simply subscribes to the live PNL data on your behalf, so you don't get to know what is happening when you log in. Okay? Now this will not happen when you code your own platform, when you code when you automate your strategy, those things will not happen on on its own, okay? So you we need to subscribe to those parts ourselves, okay? So yes, in a sense, you are correct that it happens when you in menu trading, but menu trading when you log in that platform is doing on its own

Speaker 1  44:15  
division tools. Yes, you're partially right, but I believe as we go through things will become more clear for you. Yeah, yes, exactly. So as our friend Manjunath says in response for the response with Madan, that is your terminal or your GUI is a client, that's true. Okay, great. So now that we are pretty comfortable with the idea of synchronous and asynchronous mode of communication. Let's go ahead and let's understand the architecture of the REST API, which will help us build the request that we will be sending to the broker. Okay, now the. I remember that in either of these mode of modes of communication, there are two parts that will always stay which is, which is the client in the server. Okay, so there, there would be client and there would be server. We would always be on the client side. We would be writing our code on the client side. Okay, so please pay attention over here for the next half an hour, wherein we are going to discuss what REST API architecture is and how we can use it to make the request. Okay, please. So consider this, there's a broker, okay? And the broker wants to offer automated trading solutions to their clients. Okay? The broker wants to offer automatic trading solutions to their client. And the broker knows that in the like for automated trading solutions, or for providing algorithmic trading facilities, the clients will usually help some programs running, okay? And those programs need to connect to the broker, okay? So what the broker does is the broker sets up a new web server. The broker sets up a new web server to which the clients can connect. Now, these brokers web server is connected to the internal trading system or the order management system, wherein the risk checks will be made and then those orders will be passed to the exchange. So the brokers web server becomes the primary face to connect to. Okay, it would it becomes the primary object to connect to. Now, when the brokers comes up with a new web server, the broker needs to tell to their clients where they can connect to, okay, where they can connect to. And as a result, the broker will have of the broker will get a new address. Code is the www, dot broker api.com, so this is the brokers web servers address where the client can connect to right now, this web address where the broker server is available for connection is known as the base URL. Okay, please remember this brokers connection as this brokers web server to which the clients can connect to has a name or his has an address, and this address is known as the base URL. Any broker out there who provides REST API, they need to provide base URL so that the clients can know where they can connect to, okay. For example, here we have the exam. We have the base URL for interactive broker, which is this one, okay, this is one broker which is the which is the interactive broker. This is an example from another broker, which is the zero, which is in India, like a prominent broker in the Indian markets. And on the very first page of the documentation, they have mentioned the base URL. So the point is, any broker out there, they would mention that base URL or the root end point, okay, own their very first or the second page. So if you, whenever you get started, whenever you start by, start by building REST API, you need to have these things with you. Okay, back to the slideshow. So the broker has this web server up and running which has an address, and that address is known as base URL, okay.

Speaker 1  49:14  
Now there are various clients, okay, the client who are right, who are using Python scripts or who are using some kind of mechanism to connect to the broker server, right? And there would be multiple clients at any point in time, okay, there would be multiple clients at any point in time, and all of these clients are performing different sets of operation at any point in time. For example, client a is streaming real time data from the server. Client B is fetching current positions from the server, okay. Client C is punching new orders to the. Server client D is fetching P and L, so in a way that a single server would be servicing or would be listening to multiple clients who are performing a host of different operations at the same time, right? So this is the typical architecture that usually people, that usually the broker, brokers have, okay? Now, at times it could happen that is, there are 10s of hundreds of clients connected to the broker, to the brokers server. At the same time, the server could become overwhelmed, okay, the server could become overwhelmed and it could become slow. So the broker thinks that the broker tries to optimize this setup in a way that the broker says that, okay, if you want to make any particular request, you need to connect to some particular department within the brokers server. Okay, now I'm just, I'm using a simple, let them layman terms here to make things easy, but that is not actually the thing, okay. So just think that within the broker server there would be multiple departments, or there would be multiple compartments that the clients need to connect to to perform certain operations like this, okay, so within the broker server there are, there is a dedicated department which handles only positions request, okay. There are, there is a dedicated department which handles only requests for orders. There is a dedicated compartment which only listens to the request or caters to the request with regards to P and L. Okay. So now the clients who wants to fetch positions, they need to connect to the appropriate department. The one who wants to manage orders, they need to connect to a particular department in the within the server and likewise. Okay. Now when I say department or compartment, I do not mean it literally this, this is just for the explanation purpose, right? But we could, we could think of it as a as an office, right? If we, if we go to a bank and if we want to perform any operations related to loans, okay, we would go, we would need to connect to a particular department. So likewise, over here, if we need to perform a certain operation, we need to connect to particular compartment within the broker server and this department. So the compartments that that I am with talking they're talking about, they are known as the end points. Okay, they are known as the end points. So now we as the clients, know that for any particular trading operation that we perform or we need to perform, we need to connect to its own endpoint. Okay, we need to connect to its own endpoint is the request won't be catered, okay? If I go to a department which only caters for certain kind of request, and if I make any request outside their pursuit, they might not listen to. Okay. So likewise over here, these are the endpoints that we need to connect to in order to perform those trading operations. Now, the base URL that we had over here would become like this, something HTTPS, base URL followed by the endpoint, okay, so if I want to fetch positions, so the whole URL would be HTTP, is

Speaker 1  54:10  
colon, double slash, WW, dot broker api.com, shares positions. Okay, likewise, if I want to place order, the whole URL would be HTTPS. Broker api.com/place, order, okay, and likewise for the PnL, so which now means that if I want to fetch PNL, I simply need to use this particular URL to perform any PNL related trading operation. If I want to place order, I need to use these second the third one in the list to place the order. And if I want to fetch positions, I need to use the URL given over here to fetch positions. Okay, so now what happens is it makes a. Our life easy, okay? It makes our life easy in a sense that if we want to perform any particular operation, we have a dedicated address to connect to on the broker server, right? And likewise, if we want to know what all trading operations the broker provides. We can simply scroll through all these URLs on the brokers documentation, okay? On the REST API documentation, and we will get to know what are the various trading operations that the that this particular broker supports. Okay, so let us go to the documentation and see, like, what are different endpoints available on various brokers? Okay, so over here I am just like, going through, say, I'm not going to go through all the list. I'm just showing you. How does this endpoint look like? Okay, so over here, this is the end point, okay, for creating or modifying an alert. Okay, likewise, there would if I scroll down, there is another end point, which I can call to or which I which I can use to get the list of all available alerts from the broker, from this broker. Okay, so if I just keep on scrolling down, I can see the list of trading operations that I can perform via API. Okay. So just okay. So here it is right. This is the this is the end point to fetch the PnL, the account PNL. So from my Python program, I simply need to call the base URL, and this endpoint, the whole URL along with the base URL to get my account, PNL, okay, likewise, if I scroll down. So if I, if I keep on scrolling down, I would see like, multiple endpoints listed on this documentation which I can use to perform trading operations. Using Python. Okay, using Python. So again, if I want to fetch accounts information, what not if I want to fetch or if I want to search any financial instrument, I could use this. So this is the example from the Interactive Brokers. Let let us go and let us see example from another broker. For example, orders over here. Okay, so see, these are the end points over here. I could use this endpoint orders to variety, to place an order for on this particular broker. Okay. I could use the this particular endpoint to modify the order. I could use this one to delete order. Likewise, so any broker that is out there who provides REST API, they would have these kind of things mentioned on the documentation, which we need to go through and understand, so that we know what are the what is the base URL that we need to use? What are the endpoints available so that we can go ahead and we can use them so that we can perform trading operations. Okay, great, back to the slideshow. So first we have the base URL, then we have the end point now see, when we want to automate any stuff, when we want to make a request, the request should happen, or request should go from the client to the server. Okay, the request will happen from this client and it will go to the server. So the client needs to send some information about the trading operation that the client wants to perform. Okay, the client

Speaker 1  59:11  
needs to send certain information to the server about the trading operation that the client wants to perform. Now, there are three pieces of information. There are three pieces of information that the client need to send, okay, the first set of the first piece of information that the client needs to send is the HTTP method, okay, the first piece of information that the client needs to send to the server is the HTTP method. There are 10s of, very 10s of HTTP methods out there which the client can use, out of which the two most used. HTTP methods are POST and GET okay. Now this HTTP method conveys the intention of the client to the server. Okay, I repeat this HTTP method conveys the intention of the client to the server? In a sense that whatever trading operation that the client is making, what is the intention of the trading operation? Does the client want to post new information on to the server, or does the client want to get some information from the server? Okay, so if we are fetching, sorry, my bad. If you're, if you're fetching PNL from the server, okay, then we want to get information from the server, and in those lines we might be using GET HTTP method while making a request. Okay, please understand this information is to be provided by the client while making a request. Okay, we are still making a request to the server, okay, so what happens? We need to use these whole URL. And in addition to this whole URL, we need to pass HTTP method, okay, if we are placing an order, okay, we want to post some information to the server, and in that case, we might be using post, okay, now see, is the end user is we are the consumer of the REST API. We don't need to really think about which HTTP method we need to use. We can simply consult the documentation, and the documentation would would mentioned, what are the what is the HTTP method that we that we need to use? So for example, for this particular endpoint, this is the HTTP method that we need to use. Okay. Now, if I scroll through any list of endpoint, they will mention the HTTP method that we need to use. Likewise, if I go here, oh, here as well, they have mentioned what HTTP, HTTP method that I need to use. So this HTTP method is simply conveys the intention of the client, whether the whether the client needs to send or whether the client wants to post new information or wants to fetch some information from this from the server. Okay, so the very first piece of information that we need to pass is the HTTP method. The second one is the headers, okay, the second one is the headers. Now, headers contain the information about the client, right? So whenever a client is making a request to the server, there are times when the server needs to know something about the client, okay, there are, there are some brokers who will ask information about the client, like, what is the client? Who is the client, whether it is a browser or it is a Python program or it is mobile application, who is the client, who is asking for the information, okay, or who is making the request. So headers usually contain the information about the client that the server needs to know in order to process the request. We usually create, or we usually when we make request, the information about the client is being passed as Python dictionaries. Okay, the it is being passed is Python dictionaries. So it could, it could be. It could happen that

Speaker 1  1:04:15  
whenever we are sending the information to the or whenever we are making a request to the client, sorry, to the server, they will ask like, what in what operating system do you run on? Okay, what is your what should be the authentication method to be used and what not, right? So let me show you an example. So

Speaker 1  1:04:44  
yep, so we we discuss the HTTP methods. Okay, now we need to know we are discussing about the headers. Okay, the headers is basically the additional information about the client. While making a request, okay? And this is the example of an header. Now this is the example of one of the running applications, like when we created so see over here, the headers contains the authentications token, okay, then it is also containing the client code, and also it contains the subscription key. So headers come as or we need to define headers, is the Python dictionary. Another example of a header could be this, right when we say that you need to, whenever we are sending the request, the client is telling the server that we need to keep this connection alive. Okay? The client accepts application accepts data in the text or the plain format, right? The device on which the client is running is a web application. And again, what not, right? So this is basically some piece of information about the client that the server needs to know. Okay, great. And the last piece of information that the client needs to send to the server is the information about the trading operation itself. Okay? About the trading operation itself. So, for example, if you're placing an order, okay? If you're calling this URL broker api.com, place order, then first we need to use this HTTP method post which is being told to us by the broker itself. Okay. Then we need to send headers, which is the information about the client. And now lastly, we need to send information about this request itself. Okay. So when we want to place the order, we need to mention the instrument in which we want to place, the order quantity, price, the time in force, and whatnot. So any extra piece of information that does that the particular request itself requires needs to be passed as payload, or sometimes also known as the body, okay, sometimes also known as the body or the payload, that is the that is the information about the server, about the request itself, okay, so what are the examples? So examples could be here, right? So this is an example from the interactive broker itself, which is this, right? Right? So over here we say that account ID is this. So we want to place an order in this account ID. This is the contract, contract ID, or the contract definition. The security type is top, the order type is market order exchange is this one and what not, right? So the side, the ticker, name, the timing, force, quantity and whatnot, right? Another example from another broker is this, wherein, now see, this is really interesting, in a sense that what information to be used or to be provided would also be mentioned by the broker on the documentation. Okay, so when it comes all this idea about REST API, about HTTP method, payload, they remain the same across the broker. However, their implementation will keep on changing. Okay, so we need to keep it, keep this in mind, right? So whenever we are making a request, it could be possible that certain brokers would require certain piece of information, and the other brokers Won't they. They might not require any piece of information, right? So this is how the payloads are created, which is exchange order ID and whatnot. So coming back to this slideshow over here. So when we, when we are making, when we want to make a request, what are the things that are required? Let me go ahead and let me place it over here. So the very first thing that to make a request, we first need the base URL. Okay, then we would require the endpoint. The third thing that we would require is the HTTP method. Okay, this HTTP method conveys the intention of the client.

Speaker 1  1:09:43  
Okay, the fourth piece of information that that would be required would is the headers, which contains the information about the client, right? And the last piece of information that is required is the payload, or body. Is they both are one is the same, which is the information about the request itself. Okay? So to make a request from the client to the server, we would require these five things with us. If there is anything missing, we won't be able to make the request. Okay. Now say, once we make once we made the request, once we made the request, we will receive a response from the server, okay. Now once we receive the response from the server, what are the things that this response will help? Okay, what are the things that the response will help? So let's go ahead and let's discuss that part. So there would be two components, okay, about the response. There would be two components about the response. The first one is the unique status code. The first one is the unique status code that tells us how did the server perceive our request. Okay, the first one would be the status code about how did the server perceive our request, whether the server understood our request or it failed to understood if it understood whether the server was able to process that request or what not, right? So mostly, almost every time, when we make the request and when we receive the response, the very first thing that we do is to check the status code. If the status code tells us that everything went fine, okay, everything went fine. Then only we go ahead and we check for the second part, which is the content that is like the content of the response that we receive from the server. Okay? So there would be two parts of the response, which would be the first one. The first one would be the status code, and next one would be the content, content of the response. First check the status code of the response, and then check the content of the response. Okay. Now, when it comes to status code. Okay. There are many status codes that are available out there, okay. However, we don't need to remember any like every, every one of them. All we need to know is like, how the status codes are configured. Okay, so whenever the status quo, whenever the request is success, okay, whenever we send the request and the request got executed successfully, that is, the server understood the request, and the server was able to pass information and was able to like work on that request, it will send the successful response code, which is which starts with two, okay, which starts with two. So whenever the status code starts with two, it simply means that everything went fine, okay. Then whenever the status code that we receive starts with four, okay, whenever the status quo that we receive starts with four, which means that we it we is the client made some error. Okay? It could be in terms of sending any of these information, it could be like incorrect base URL or endpoint, or incorrect usage of HTTP method, or if we missed to provide some headers or payload, it could be anything. So if the client made any error which the server could not understand, and as a result, the server could not pass and the server could not

Speaker 1  1:14:04  
work on that particular request, then the server will send status code starting with four, okay, and if everything is okay, but still the server is not able to process The request, then the status code would start with five, right? The status code would start with five. So we made everything. We made sure that everything is correct. The base URL, endpoint headers are as requested, the HTTP method is correct. We provided enough payload data, but still somehow, the server is not able to cater to our request, because of any reason, okay, because of any reason it could be the the server is overwhelmed, okay, or the server could not handle any more request. The server does not have necessary resources to work. A poll. It could be anything on the server side. In those cases, the server will let us know by sending the status code starting with five okay. The server will say that, okay, you are correct. You sent everything correctly, but I am the one who cannot cater to this request at this point in time, and as a result, it would be 500 the status code. We start with 500 okay. Now, if I have to give you the example of the status code, again, we would see it after, after the break. But again, if I have to give you the example, let me, let me, let me put it some, show it somewhere, something like this, if I go here, and if I if I see, if I simply miss, if I simply remove something, okay, see it is telling, oh, it now it is started. It is not giving me the error, but, but the eight is to give the error actually, wait. We could do something like this,

Unknown Speaker  1:16:13  
if I go ahead and if I, if I, if I click here.

Speaker 1  1:16:28  
Yeah, see it gave us 404 right? So 404 is a error code that start with four, which tells us that it is the client side error, right? So, four over here. Now what is the client side error over here? It simply says that, again, it is something for us to debug and identify, and we know that over here, we mistyped the URL, okay? And as a result, the server did not understand what is, what it is that we are asking for. And as I say, as a result, it says that, okay, it is the client client error, which is like, page not found, something like that, right? So, yeah, so these are the components that we need to understand from our side, right? Great, so let me go through the questions and see if I received any questions, and then we can proceed further.

Speaker 1  1:17:30  
So URLs are pasted in the Python scripts. Yeah, that's true. So in a way, we don't paste it. We simply call them. We would call those URLs as in when we require them for particular trading operations, please share the link for the documentation. Oh, these things are actually available on the documentation is on the on the on

Unknown Speaker  1:18:08  
other messages, but again I am let me, let me share it again. Yeah, okay, great.

Speaker 1  1:18:18  
HTTP, response codes are universal. Yeah, they are universal. So remember, like when we started this class, I mentioned that this REST API has become kind of de facto standard in the IT industry, and now they, they have been adopted by the broking industry as well. So yeah, those things remain to see. Yep, see this, HTTP response codes are not for brokers. Actually, they are regulated by these HTTP consortium, okay, so they are this. HTTP response codes will be the same across the web. Okay? How to code URLs in Python scripts of the client will come to that part within in a few minutes. How to code HTTP response status codes in Python? No, we don't need to state. We don't need to code them. We just need to read them. Okay, we just need to read them about what they what it is in the word response code that the client that the server has sent back to us. Okay? So these were the questions. Any more questions anywhere? Or if we are okay, if everything is clear until now, which whatever things that we have discussed, could you guys please press zero, or else, put in your question? Do

Speaker 1  1:19:48  
Oh, okay, great. So let's do one thing. Let's take small break, and after the break, we'll come and we'll discuss the two more terminology, and then we will. To start with Python implementation. Okay, great, so it's a 1720 on my screen, and we would reconvene at around 1731 Okay, great. Okay.

Speaker 1  1:30:44  
Okay, I hope everyone had the good brother. So let's resume from where we had left before the break. Okay, so there is this question which the Kishore asked, which is saying that IB, APA is not REST API, so we don't need to send HTTP methods, and everything is managed by the two way Python classes, e client and E wrapper. But if you want to use another broker who supports only REST API, then we need to code our own custom classes to process the request and receive responses. Is that correct? Yes, that is 100% to the point that IB API is not the REST API. That's true. It is a custom built API by the IB itself. So they have their own classes, right? And REST API is a concept. It's, it's, it's, it's a, it's a technology, right, which most broker supports. So if we want to use REST APA, then we need to create our own custom classes to process the request and receive the responses that is absolutely correct. And that is what we are going to do. That is like we would be going ahead, we would be learning how to make request, how to receive responses, and towards the end of the class, I will be sharing a kind of like a template where we can which you can replicate to create your own classes that is absolutely correct. Now, Manjunath says that IB provides both. That is true. IB provides both So, but for the beginners, there are often confusion with regards to what is what and what is not. So, let me get it Yes. In a sense, you are like, Yeah, you are also correct that IB provides both. So let me just put it over here. Okay, so in TBP 01, class, that is the last time. So this class happened last time. Okay, we learned about IB TWS API. Okay, so this is the API provided by the IB itself. So it's a custom based API in today's class, which is the TBP 02 class. Okay, we are learning about REST API, which is supported by almost all brokers, including interactive broker, okay, including API, including Interactive Brokers. Right now we are going to go through the demonstrations using interactive broker itself only so over here, this was the IB TWS IB API. The API name itself is ibtws API for REST API in interactive broker, okay, in interactive broker, the REST API goes by the name of

Speaker 1  1:34:03  
web API. Okay, so they call this REST API is web API, but we don't need to get confused, see. We just need to know that there is REST API supported by the broker, whatever they used to call them, right? So over here, they say they have written it as web APA. In the previous versions of documentation, they used to call these CP web API, CP web API, okay, Client Portal, web API. And now they'll, they will change it to only web APA, but regardless if we know that a particular broker supports REST API, we can use these concepts that is of support, making a request and receiving responses and whatnot. Okay, great. Okay, so any more questions? Is there a relevant is there a significant difference in speed between the two different IB, care, APIs, which one is faster? No, not really. So in terms of speed, this both appears are for retail people and for their support. They are intended to be used for lft, MFT trading, so in the in that case, they are in terms of speed difference, I found very again, there is marginal difference between the two, which is, I don't think would affect trading operations to a large extent. However, the TWS APA when it comes to Interactive Brokers, okay, this is very specific to Interactive Brokers, okay, TWS APA is there very is the matured product? Okay, baby PA, is a bit of new one. Is there a new offering? So it is still evolving. It is still they are still making changes. They still, they come up with new features every now and then. But TWS APA is very mat product in a sense. So TWS API is one of the most stable APIs that I have used across the board. Okay, it usually it provides, literally just so many trading facilities via API that I did not find any other broker providing it. So my take would be like, if you are working and if things are okay with TWS APA, I don't even should go for go with this, because they are one of the most mature products, right? But again, they like in the recent times, they have considerably upgraded their test API as well, but in terms of speed, I don't think they would be, yeah, okay, it would be helpful if you could use the IB stable version again, so it doesn't matter, right? If you're using IB version 10 point 3437 or 30, things should just work fine across the APIs, right? But again, for just for information, but for everyone, the API or the REST API that we are going to work with, it doesn't require TWS to be work. We don't touch TWS at all. For this class, what is the reference between IB web API and IB gateway? They both are very different. IB web API is basically so IB, so again, IB, TWS, it is a desktop application, okay, let me just rearrange big things, i, b, t, w, s, API is, is An API? Okay? Over here, desktop trading application, right? IB web API, or, yeah, this is REST API. What we are learning today. So the documentation that you see in the background is about IB web API. Okay, IB gateway is lightweight application used for monitoring connections between IB, TW, s, API,

Speaker 1  1:39:05  
and I B, okay. So again, it's so if you want to, if you don't want to use TWS, I btw, is, along with TW API, you can use IB gateway, okay, so in other way, in other words, IB gateway is, is an alternative to IB TWS, but it does not have any UI. It does not have any you cannot, you cannot see anything. It's just like, it's just a small box where you can see that how many Python programs are connected to it. That's it. Okay. So, so, so Nikolai asked, Is REST API like a rapper on the top of TWS in the ibkr case? No, no, no, no, they both are entirely different. They both are entirely different. In fact, our TWS API is a wrapper around TWS. And this web API is an entire different product. Technologies take difference, although it should be mostly starting part of their server side technology. So majunath, I believe you are. You're referring to the differences between these TWS and TWS API. But yeah, the technology stakes are entirely different for each of these products. Okay, yeah, it could happen what you're saying it could happen like, we don't know how their infra is, right? So it could happen that in one way or the other way, they could fall back to the same servers. Yeah. Okay, great. Thank you so much for the questions, guys. So let's now go back to our discussion about REST API and see how we can put it using Python. Okay, so great. Now, in order to,

Speaker 1  1:41:10  
in order to connect to the interactive broker, so for the demonstration purpose, we would be using the Interactive Brokers REST API, okay, and interactive broker has their own way to authenticate users, right? So what we need to do is like we also need to download something known as the gateway, in terms of Interactive Brokers. So again, when it comes to rest API, as we discussed in the first half, that the I the technology is the same, the idea is the same, but the brokers tend to implement this technology on their own way, okay? So likewise in when it comes to authentication, the way interactive broker supports is, is by a way of Gateway, okay, so what we need to do is like, if you want to use the REST API provided by Interactive Brokers, which we are going to use to demonstrate how REST API works, we need to download something known as the client portal gateway. Okay, so we need to download this part, and once we download this we need to go ahead and we need to execute these commands. Okay, so this is what now I'm going to do on my machine. Okay, so let me exit, let me open command prompt. Okay, let me know. Let me just keep it big over here. Yeah, see. So now I need to go to this folder, the client portal, which in my case, is in the downloads client portal. Okay, once I'm into this portal, I need to run this command. So they say this is that on Windows you need to run this command, which is bin, run dot, bet, root, conf dot, EML. Okay. Now if you are on Mac or Unix, you need to run this bin, run.sh root, slash, run dot conf, dot DML. Once we do this, it will ask us, once we once we run this command, okay, it will provide us with this URL, right, which we need to open and which we can use to log in ourselves. So I'm opening a new incognito window. I am putting that URL over here. It says that connection is not private. That is okay, because I am running on localhost. So let me click on proceed. Once I click over here, it will ask me to enter my credentials, and I am going to enter my credentials Now, unlike TWS API, wherein we could download the trading terminal and use the demo account, that facility is not available over here, You need to help the account with Interactive Brokers, but that is okay. Almost all brokers require you to have an account in order to use the REST API. Okay, so if you guys don't have account, that is, that is entire that is totally okay. Just understand how it works over here, and then later you can replicate the same thing with your own broker. Okay, so let me go ahead and let me enter my user credentials. Once I enter my credentials over here, it tells me that the client login succeeds, okay, once my client once i. Am logged in. Once I am authenticated, I can go ahead and I can start using REST API. Okay, so I will now open Python spider. Okay. I have provided you multiple files for these classes. The first file is the CP web API functions. Okay, so this is the file where all the code is written. This is the file where all codes are written, right? And this file only contains definitions of the functions. So what I have tried to do over here is like, for each URL, okay, or for each trading operation, I have defined a dedicated function. So in a sense that I have tried to create my own library, okay, that I can use for my trading purpose. So if you see over here, if I want to

Speaker 1  1:45:57  
fetch accounts, I simply need to call this function. If I want to fetch PNL, I can simply go ahead and call this function. If I want to fetch LTP, I can use this function. If I want to fetch historical data, I can use this so this particular file is used or implements the REST API. Okay, and for each individual trading operation. I have tried to create a dedicated function right now. I don't call any of this function in this file, but rather, I input all these functions in another file called the entry point.py, okay. Code the entry point.py, and I import all those functions over here by using the Import for the import syntax. Now, why do I do this? So if you really think right, having your code set up in a modular as way you can segregate files from you can segregate your business logic, okay, so over here, I just need to use these functions as in when required. Okay, I don't need to code those functions. So anyway, what happens is like I created a single file or a single class. Is one of our friends mentioned earlier, wherein I created my own class. I just am importing those functions from that class, and I can use it in my file over here, right? So this is what the ideology is, behind the function, behind this code. Okay, great. Now if I want to go ahead, and if I want to use this, I can simply go ahead, I can import these functions. I will explain each, each and every line in a minute. But let me just check if everything works fine. It should okay. So if I now fetch auth status. It should work. Fine, okay, great. It is working now. Then there are two other files, which is for streaming of data. We will come to that later in few minutes. Okay, great. Coming to this particular file so we use this file to code all the requests that we have. Okay, over here, we use the Import library. We use the request library to make any request. So this library is used to make any request to any URL, okay, understand, not to any not to a particular broker, but to any URL. So request library takes the URL now that URL could be of any broker, and we could use it to call, call that particular URL. Okay. Then this is a, this particular line is also known as a pretty print. It helps us print large output in a readable format. Okay, so we could have avoided these and simply use the print statements. But it could happen that when there are, when there is, like, really huge output, the text information provided by the server, it is usually unreadable, right? So if we want to make it readable, we can use this library called pretty print, right? Then we import, then we import warnings. Just to ignore any warning, we import pandas to handle data, any kind of data, analytical task, we import time to introduce delays or whatnot. Okay, this, there is something known as JSON, which we haven't came to which I have. I haven't discussed it yet, so I will come to that part in a moment. Okay, great. Then over here, I simply ignore any warning that we might get. Okay, so let me just go ahead and let me try to

Speaker 1  1:50:14  
build my very first Python request. Okay, and to do that, I am going for these auth status function right now. Remember, in our discussion, we we say that to make a request, we need these five components. The very first component that we require is the base URL. Then we also require the end point, okay, then we need HTTP method. Then we require headers, and the last thing that we require is the payload or the body. Great. So over here, the very first thing I'm defining is the base URL, which is these, HTTP, local host, 5000 v1 API. So this is mentioned on the very on the very first few paragraphs of the documentation, right then there is this end point which I need to use specifically to check whether I with to check the authentic authentication status about my account. Okay, so this is the end point. I then combine the base URL and end point to create the whole URL. Okay. Next, what I do is I print the URL, right? Great. So I have the first two components ready with me, right? Then there is this For then there is this fourth and the fifth component, which is the headers and the payload. Now see, whenever you call any request, if you go to the documentation of this particular endpoint, these brokers will usually provide or usually mention, what are the headers and what are the payloads required? Okay, if they don't mention anything, it means that the headers in the payload are usually not required, okay, so over here for this particular endpoint, no headers, nor no no headers or payloads are required so they are empty, okay. Last what we do is we make a request using request dot post. Now I use post over here, because for this particular you end point, for this particular endpoint, they require us to use the POST method. Okay, so if I go here, if I search for this endpoint over here. See. So this is the endpoint that I am making, that I am calling. I server auth status, okay. And they say I need to use the post HTTP method, okay. And as a result, this particular library, the request library that we use to make request, it provides the methods with the same name, okay, the methods with the same name. So we say that over here, requests dot post. Why we are using post and not any other method, because HTTP method that needs to be used is the post. Okay, post, then we need to provide what URL like to which URL we were to call to, headers and payload. Okay, headers and payload. Now for Interactive Brokers. Now this is very specific to Interactive Brokers. We don't need to check for the SSL certificate, okay. And hence we are using verify equals to force, but for all other brokers, this could be true, okay, so this verify equals to force is only for Interactive Brokers because they don't provide SSL certificate, and as a result, if we don't use verify equals to force, most of the request would fail, okay, so just understand in those terms that we Need to use verify equals to force for Interactive Brokers, for any other brokers, we could use a verify equals to false, or even we, if don't, if we don't use that's perfect. That's perfectly fine. Okay, so this is where we are making the request. Okay, see now what happens is that when we make this request, okay, what? What happens is, like this client, the python script will try to connect to the broker server. The server will try to understand the URL, will try to process the request, and the response will come back and see now, until the response comes back, okay, until the response comes back, the Python will not move to the next line, okay, the Python will not move to the next line. And the whatever, the response that we receive over here will be assigned to this particular variable. Okay, it will be assigned to this particular variable. Now, if. This is the case what kind of what mode of communication it is. If this is the case, what mode of communication it is.

Speaker 1  1:55:19  
Perfect, absolutely, right? So REST API uses synchronous mode of communication. Perfect. We write this synchronous model here. Great. Now, once we receive the responses, once we receive the response from the server, we can extract the two, two piece of information, two pieces of information that it usually contains. The first one is the status code, okay. What is status code? So status code simply tells us how did the request go, okay. And the second one is the content itself, okay. The second one is the content itself. So I will come to this part in a few minutes, but see, first I'm extracting the status code over here, and then I'm extracting the content itself, okay? And once the content is extracted, I simply go ahead and I simply print it. Okay, so this is what happens. We first prepare all the components that are required to make the request. Then we use the request library. Okay, then we use the request library. Once we use the request library to make the request, we wait for the response to come back. Once the response comes back, we go ahead. We extract the status code, we extract the response, the content of the response, and then we simply print it. Okay, this is what we do. So let me just go ahead over here in the entry point where we are importing this function or status over here. Okay, so we are authentic. We are importing this. So let me just go ahead and import everything again, right? I am, I have imported those functions in my working area, and now, if I go ahead, if I go execute this particular line, okay, if it's simply call this function, what what happens is this, so now please pay attention. See what happened. Is this? Okay? First it called this function. It then defined these two variables, it then created the whole URL, and then it printed the whole URL. Okay, it did printed the whole URL, and that this is the URL that got printed right next. These two another variables got created, headers and payload. Right now we know what are what are headers and what are payload so which we discussed already. Once we defined those things, we went ahead and we made the request using the request library and using the post method, okay. Why did we use the POST method? Because the documentation mentions that we need to use the POST method. Okay, so we need to we so we use the POST method. We provided the URL, we provided the headers in the payload, okay? And we used a verify goes to first because SSL again, we interactive broker doesn't provide SSL certificate. Okay, that is what happened. And once the response came back, we went ahead and we printed the status code, which is over here, okay, status code 200 now, remember from our discussion, from the previous half, we say that whenever the response code starts with two it means that everything went fine at the server's end. And we see that over here for successful response, it is it starts with 202 okay, and that is what we see, okay, great. And then we extracted the response, the content of the response from the response itself, and then we printed it over here, okay, and this is what we got, okay, this is what we got. Now, see what what we see over here in the is a part of the response that we are not authenticated, okay? Or neither we are connected. Now this is something very

Speaker 1  1:59:35  
contract contradicting to what we did by this right? We rent, we executed this command, we open this URL, and we connect. We log in over here, and it says that the client login succeeds, but it still then says that the authenticated authenticated is like we are not connected, neither we are authenticated. So now this is not a bug, this is a. Feature. I tell you why, because when we did that for the first time, when we when we logged in for the first time, we went ahead and we arranged the same function, and when we did that, we got a bit different output right over here we see authenticated was true and connected was also true right now, in a trip to broker, if we don't send request every few second, they will disconnect us. Okay, they will disconnect us. So what happened was, like I authenticated myself. Right then I went on to explain you the whole function, and by the time it took me to explain the whole function, it disconnected me. And as a result, I got authenticated, authenticated force. And connection equals connected equals to force. So that is not something bug or anything, but it is by design. Okay, great. So let me now take questions, and then we shall go ahead and we shall discuss the remaining concepts. Okay.

Speaker 1  2:01:16  
So let me, let me. I see there are many, many questions on the question panel. And most of those questions are okay, let me just open this part. Let me just go here.

Speaker 1  2:01:42  
Someone asked, what is IB? IP? Is a broker interactive. It stands for Interactive Brokers. It's just like any other broker who provides REST API. What is localhost? Localhost is localhost simply means we are on the same machine. Okay? Local means the same host means the machine. Okay, so whenever we say a local host, it is a term that is used to mean the same machine. How to create a library for trading now, again, this is very open ended and subjective question, but what I meant over here is like I have created various functions which could connect with the broker and go ahead and like, perform operations on the broker. And this single file, okay, x is a kind of a library for me. Now, when we say Python library, it could mean that there are multiple files within it, and those files are compiled and whatnot. But again, that is something very, very different and out of scope of this class. But what I meant over here is like, when I go ahead, I if I want to create strategy. I would create strategy over here, okay, so that I in this particular file, I don't have to worry about any broker specific code, or I don't need to write anything broker specific here. I can entirely focus on my strategy part. Okay, so that is what I meant. Is it possible? So the UN ask, is it possible to connect Python directly to a broker through the trading platform, like running Meta Trader or Ninja Trader, or communicating with it, or is it better to use the brokers direct API instead? What are the advantages of using direct API or going through the platform. So the only benefit that I see, usually there are multiples. But the main big advantage is that when you work directly with the brokers, brokers API, you have everything in your control, okay? And when you go through a platform, okay, like Ninja Trader or meta trade or anything, okay, you have a dependency on that platform as well, and you never know how that platform is going to affect your trading. Okay? Now there are times that there are times when that platform could make certain operations easy for you, but it could also happen that it adds a layer of abstraction between you and the broker. Okay, now so it is, it is, it is a two way street, right? You want that the third platform which you are using to access your broker usually has more control than you, so using direct API usually allows you to bypass that thing. Okay, so and also. At times it also, the speed also matters in a way that if you are connecting directly to the brokers API, you might find, again, if your trading system is latency sensitive, if, if it is not, then that particular concern would go out of the scope. But yeah, so are you using REST API in spider? Yes, I'm using REST API in spider. Why IB APA? If it is immature? No, I did not say IB web API is immature. I said that IB web API is a new product, okay? And the idea over here is that we want to learn and understand REST API, and we are demonstrating it using IB web API, right? So again, as we as we discussed in the very first half of this class, right, all brokers would implement REST API in their own way. Okay? So there is no such term as like, whether they are providing, is it immature or what? Right? So again, it entirely depends on how broker supports this particular product or this particular API. Great. You ask this question thrice. No, okay, why not use IBT ws API instead of ibpa? Yeah, we could write so again, that was the very first thing that we answered in this in this class, when we started that we our objective is not to

Speaker 1  2:06:44  
build inclination about a particular approach, what we are doing or what we are learning, is like multiple ways to automate our trading operations, okay, and once we know what is, What What are, what technology offers, what features and what are the limitations of what we would be in a better place we would be in a better position to make or to take those decisions. Okay? Why IB do not use SSL certificate? Why others broker use SSL certificates? That is because the way IB provides authentication services is by the usage of Gateway. Okay, so we need to import, we need to download this gateway on our local machine, a local machine, and then we need to log in to that local gateway on our local machine. So our local machines usually don't have SSL certificates, unless it is hosted on some servers. So and other brokers usually don't follow this practice. They usually ask people to go to their hosted URL somewhere to log in.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:57  
Okay, great. What is payload? Payload is basically, as we discussed over here.

Speaker 1  2:08:07  
Payload is basically the any extra piece of information that we need to send. When I say we, we as a client, need to send to place the order, or not, sorry, my bad, not to place the order any piece of any extra piece of information that the request itself requires. Okay. What is the POST method? It is HTTP method that we need to use how to trade, how to trade, if the broker disconnects you, or we need to keep checking whether we are connected or not. So that is one of the that is one of the quarks that kicks in when we automate or create our past strategies. So here, as I said, that if I don't send request periodically, the broker will disconnect me. So to handle that part, what I usually used to do earlier was to run this particular I used to run this particular code in the background, which I am not running today. So this particular part of code is, is something known as heartbeats, okay? So it simply sends null another request, or kind of something, kind of, you know, a heartbeat, to the broker every 55 seconds, right? So it is something known as the continuous tickle. So whenever I used to take these lectures earlier, I used to run this code in the background. And what used to happen was, like most of the students, most of the time, it goes unnoticed that something of this kind of code is also goes keeps on running in the background, and as a result, they fail. Is this when they automate the strategies. So now I have stopped doing that part because so that the students notice that if we don't do these things again, the broker might disconnect us. Okay, in this case, do we need to log in again? Yes, Arun we. We need to log in again after the disconnect. Do we have to run the authentication function once again in order to get connected to the server. Yeah. So there are two ways, okay, Chandan, so the first way is to either we go if this substantial time passed, we need to go ahead and re login again. Okay. Else we could go ahead and we could call this re authenticate function directly from the code. Okay, so let me just go ahead and try to call it and see it says, okay, re authentication triggered, and let me check if it worked. I don't think it would work, because substantial, significant time has been passed. Okay, I'm not sure. Oh yeah, it worked. See, I did not log in. I just, like, re authenticated myself using this function. So this is another end point, actually, okay, I just did that and it worked. Okay, so now I don't need to go ahead and re login again. So I hope Arun and chandan your answers a question, your questions have been answered now, right? Yeah, and again. If we don't want to do this every now and then, we could simply run these infinite while loop in the background, okay, on a separate thread, of course. Okay. By sending request, you mean there must be some trading operations which are to be performed on a regular interval, so as to stay connected, like Ei, so again, that is true, we need to send a request periodically, and is they know that we need to send the request they have given these validate endpoint, which we can call every now and then. Okay, agree. So this is one. This is the one that they have provided by themselves that you if you don't have anything to perform, you just call this particular endpoint. What about the latency? In case of using Broker API versus REST API, versus using Broker API, using third party, use yet, and then that you are you, you have touched upon really good point. So usually latency would be the part when you go through third party, okay? Because in that case, what happens is very simple, right? So now again, see, I am not saying that only this would happen, but usually it would be like this, right? You or the client, then it would go through the third party platform, and then it would go to the broker.

Speaker 1  2:13:08  
Right now, there are times when it could happen that you upload your code over here, okay, and everything happens over here on the third party platform, right? And if that, if that so happens, right? Then there is, then I don't think there would be any latency specific issues, okay, and additional, hope you probably don't know what they're doing, mostly, absolutely not. What is locals, 5000 they are. It's the URL that they are providing us to login. How to check for the IB connectivity, for MFT or lft? And so again, it doesn't matter whether it is lft or MFT. We just need to check whether we are authenticated or not. And we can check it using the function that we have created over here, auth status. So those, if the authenticated is true and the connection, connection is also true, then we authenticated. Yep, of course. So that's the idea, right? So the question, so the question is, could you build in connector? Could you, could you help? Could you help? Built in connectivity check embedded in the code or the algorithm? Yes, of course. So that is what we do right now that we have this function available with us, we can use this function, call this function as and when we require Sonia asked, Can we keep the connection for a while and only reconnect after certain time? Yeah, we can. We can write so again, now, by now, you would be knowing that we have multiple options, re, authenticate and manually, manually log in. So we could use either, and also we have this continuous tickle we cannot log in automatically. So that is by the regulatory aspects. So most of. These geography does not allow login, login automatically, so brokers won't provide you that part. I know there are, I know there are third party, third party things available out there which we can use to automate this stuff. But again, that is pretty much the gray area which we want, which we won't be touching upon, good broker against good broker. Good broker against the retail trades. Sorry, strange. I can I like, Could you please celebrate this part? Could I change the local host in IB, in case, using the same local host for the purpose like app development, yeah. So in that case, you don't need to change the local host, right? You need to change the port number. Of course, you can change so in the documentation, in the very first parade, they have mentioned about changing the port number, if that is not available Chandan, so you can change that part. Could broker trade against the retail trade. No idea. How will we use continuous tickle code to stay connected? Could you please? Okay, so you you simply keep on running it right. So what I could do is I could open a new terminal over here. So again. Now, because I have two different codes, sorry, two different programs, I could simply go ahead. I could simply keep on running it over here, right? It

Speaker 1  2:16:36  
will simply keep on running every 55 seconds. That's it. Nothing else. Okay, now I can go ahead and I can work. If you have a single piece of code, you can simply run this, run this particular piece of code in a separate thread, just as we do, just just as we demonstrated it in the TPP 01, class, right? And it will simply keep on running. Okay, great. Thank you so very much for these, for this awesome set of questions, guys, let's proceed and define other sets of functions or discuss now what's remaining. Okay, great. Now see, we understood how to make request. We understood how the response comes. There are two things that we still need to understand, which is like, see,

Speaker 1  2:17:41  
okay, so over here say we are the client. We are sitting on the client side. We are writing our Python program, okay, this is what we are at, the client, okay, and over here we have the server. We know for the we know for a thing that our class or our code is written in Python, right? So now, when we go ahead and when we create any headers or payloads, they would be in Python specific data structures like dictionary, okay? So if we see over here, these brackets are usually mean dictionary, okay, or sets. Let's keep it simple, and let's say they have the dictionaries. Okay. Now if I send this payload, okay, so for example, if I if I were to show you, okay, so here's the payload, okay. So now this payload over here, which will come to come to in a minute, okay, but this is the payload. And this payload is a dictionary. Now if I send this dictionary as it is to the server, okay, it could be possible, it could be possible that the server does not understand. The server does not know what Python dictionary is because the server is the server could have been coded in any language apart from Python, right? It's not necessary that server is coded in Python only. The server could have been coded in sip this plus where the concept of dictionary does not exist, okay, so in that sense, what will happen? The server will say that, okay, I don't understand the information that you are sending. And as a result, the server won't be able to process our code. Okay? The server will not be able to process our process. What request and yeah. Now it could also happen that somehow, say, somehow the server understood our code, understood our request, the server prepared the response, and the server prepared the response, whatever the response is, and when the server is sending that response back to us, that is the client, the server. Sends in response, in form of their native or like, in terms of their own specific data structures. Okay. So, for example, if it is coded in C, it could send, I would say, an order dictionary. Okay. It could not be, it could be hash map. Okay, so now on to the Python side. There is no concept of hash map, right? And the Python might not be able to understand what the server is sending. So now, how do we resolve this idea of of common data format that any language could understand, right? So Python dictionaries are the data structures which are native to Python only Python program can understand it. On the other side, C Plus Plus has their own data structures which only C Plus Plus can understand and no other language can understand. So over here, we need to have some common data format that all programs or that all programming language languages could understand. And that is where, that is where the concept of JSON comes into picture, which stands for JavaScript Object Notation. Okay, it is simply a notation. It is not. It has nothing to do with the JavaScript language, okay, it is. It has nothing to do with the JavaScript. It is just the notation, okay, for another word. In other words, it is a common data format, okay, is that is understood by almost all programming languages. Okay, so what happens over here is, whenever we prepare any request, we create payloads or the headers before sending the data to the server, before sending the data to the server, okay, we would convert them to the JSON format or the JSON object, okay, and that and we would then send that JSON object to the server, okay, so that the server knows that how to pass the incoming data,

Speaker 1  2:22:32  
and as a result, the server would be able to process the incoming request. Once the server processes it, it will prepare the response, and again, the server, before sending the response back to the client, the server would change, or would convert its native data structures to the to the JSON object, and it will then send the JSON object to the Client, which our which our end, we know that the incoming response would be in the JSON format, and we need to parse it. We need to convert it into Python native data structures, right? So we use JSON object for the communication, which is like the common data format, okay? And it basically takes away the concerns about like, what other language with, which language the server is coded, and what not, right. So over here in our code, we use the JSON library to handle this conversion. Okay, to handle this conversion. Now, for this JSON library, there are two methods, okay, the first one is the dumps method, which converts Python dictionaries to JSON objects, okay. And then there is another method, which is loads method which converts JSON objects to Python dictionaries. Okay, so this is what we do, and this is what we are using, right? So now, if we go here, and if we if we check see over here, we receive the response. Right over here we receive the response. And this response that we receive is a JSON object. Is a JSON object. We converted the JSON object to the Python dictionary using JSON dot loads. Okay. Using JSON dot loads. And as we see over here, it will be convert into the Python dictionary. Python dictionary, which we can go ahead and which we can print. Okay, so JSON dot loads. So this was one of the concepts that we need to understand. Let us go ahead and let us see another trading operation which. Is to place order. Okay, so I have, like, multiple examples over here. So let us see another example which uses the headers and the payload. Okay, so in this another example where we want to place the orders, what we are going to do again, the idea removes the same we first need to have these five things ready with us before we can send anything, right? So the first thing that we are doing, going over here, doing over here, is we are using the base URL. Okay, we are getting the base URL, then we are defining the end point so this endpoints are required to mention what dedicated operation we want to perform, right? Then we create the whole URL, right? And see if you notice I am using base URL in every function. Okay? Now that should not be the case, but I am doing this because I need to explain things. Okay. Now that should not be the case, but I am just doing it because I need to explain things. Then I am going to print URL, okay, then I am creating the headers. Now see these headers. Is basically a dictionary, okay? Now what kind of what headers do we need to provide and what not is usually mentioned in the documentation. So if we go and if we search for this documentation about this particular endpoint, okay,

Speaker 1  2:26:39  
yeah, this is a no empty alert. Just give me a moment. Let me find where is this particular

Unknown Speaker  2:26:58  
Oh, so they have, like, multiple, yeah, here it is, right. So these are

Speaker 1  2:27:10  
the digital place live orders, see. So this is to this is the URL to place the orders. Okay? So, yeah, here it is. Now, if we go here, they would say, what are the different things that we need to provide? Is the payload. So for payload, they are mentioning is body params. So some documentation would use body, some would use payload, but they are both. One is the same, right? So this, this is what we need to use it. So now we have defined headers over here. We can go ahead and we can provide the payload, okay, or the extra piece of information that we need to provide for the for the particular request itself. Okay? So we are saying that we are going to place an order in this particular contract for which is the stock. The Order Type is limit order sales side. They at this price. Quantity is 30 and what not, right? So these are all. These are all the attributes that we can read from this particular documentation, and they would mention like which one is required and which one is not right, and we can simply use it and go ahead and do it okay. Then finally, we create the payload. And before we go ahead and we post the request, or we we make the request, we need to convert it into the JSON object, right, as we discussed over here. So we are using the dump, the dumps, JSON dot dumps method, to convert Python dictionaries into JSON objects. Okay, so the rest of the things remain the same. So in a sense that once you try running multiple requests, you would find that making a request, receiving the responses is very similar across the brokers. It's just the piece of information that we need to provide and that we need to extract changes. Okay, so this is what we do. So let me go to this entry point and let me try to place the order. Okay, so over here. This is my the maker. This is my demo account on which I am using. I would be going ahead and I would be simply running this line. Okay, see if I go now here so we see it says that 400 when I say 400 it simply means that there, there is some error that we did at our end. And now we need to see like, what is the error that we did? What it is not right? I believe I this is the. Uh, let me, let me quickly take a look at

Speaker 1  2:30:11  
my sale orders. I know this is incorrect, but let me just run it and see no so it means that I'm making some error over here in this particular error. But how? But yes, this is what. This is how we can do it. Now, why is this error? So we need to go ahead and we need to check this part. Okay. So

Speaker 1  2:30:46  
Okay, great, let me see the questions if someone has identified.

Speaker 1  2:31:01  
Oh, yeah, no, no, I made it. I wrote it incorrectly, deliberate, like intentionally, because I was of the opinion that this CO ID would be the issue. But I don't think, I don't see this is the issue. Issue would be something else that needs to be debugged. Okay, let me check and see if it is the

Speaker 1  2:31:35  
let me just try once more. Else we can proceed further. No, so I believe something has to do with the URLs that we are making, some something has gone wrong over here. So again, we need to go to the documentation and read what has went wrong. Okay. No, no, no, no. So that was not the issue. Okay, as a newbie, how to debug the status code 400 so first we need to check and take a look at this part. These two things, okay, if these two things are correct or not, if this two if these two things are correct, simply go ahead and simply check for this part. Okay, it so happens that it so appears that I have made something. I might have missed something over here, and that is why it is not running. So while I was like just updating the code in a way to make it work, I might have deliberately missed something or omitted something. So that might be the part. Okay, can you dump the payload part of the response? I could do this. I could do this. It would be over here, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:32:54  
I could go ahead and I could print the JSON dot loads

Speaker 1  2:33:07  
and response dot text, I could do this and go ahead and run it. Okay, so it is saying that my account ID, this account ID is not correct, so now I need to go ahead and I need to find what is my account ID. I could use this. So let me see if I have my account ID handy. If account ID is handy, I can go ahead and I can, yeah, that's thank you so very much. Manju, not so my account ID is 4709492,

Speaker 1  2:33:55  
and this is the same that I need to use here as well. Okay, let me go and run it.

Speaker 1  2:34:10  
It is saying that it is also not correct.

Speaker 1  2:34:22  
Hmm. So, yeah, so I believe it is also closed, yeah. So I just need to change this part and it would be, it would run, okay, we can skip that part because I don't have the other account ID handy with me. Great. But thanks, Manju, that it shows the error. Could you please re explain the header definition in this function? Okay, yeah, sure. So header definition is simply the part where we need to send information about the client. Which is this Python client, right? So we say that over here we are x. Accepting the JSON object as a content. Okay, so this is what we mean, right? Okay, could you use, could you use AI board to debug? Oh, yeah, we could use it. But again, as as Manjunath says, we don't need to write, okay, error may be due to market currently, close, no, no. We identified the error right? The error is that my account ID is not correct. So I'm providing some something incorrect over here. This is not my correct account ID. I need to go ahead and I need to take a look at like, what is my actual account ID? Okay, let me just go through these. What is the way to test this before making market making live? Do we use paper trading account first? Yeah, Arun. That is true. So I am using my paper trading account ID over here, but my account ID is somehow incorrect, so I need to take a look at it. Yeah, but that's true fixed protocols such as contract ID would be different for different brokers, even in case of rest using REST API, yes, of course. Chandan, so does a year, does broker provide JSON formats for the contract ID? Yeah, they do. They do. So what you are asking for is something known as the contract masters, okay, which every broker usually provides. So they are known as the contract masters, right? So this is the very first thing that we need to do as the SA developers, when we write our trading, trading strategies, right? The very first thing that when we run our algorithm, the five first thing it should do is to download the contract masters, which usually comes as a as a CSV, or is this, is this, Jason object. We load it into data frame, and then we filter the objects or the or the contracts which we intend to trade, and then we load it into some variables. That is, that is true. Again, by the way, I have hard coded them over here, but yes, that is what we need to do, could you share the notebook at the end? Yeah, I will What is the base URL? The base URL is the web servers ID, right? So remember this part. So this is the base URL. It would be different for each broker. Okay, usually paper trading ID starts with do, yeah, manikan, then you are correct. But what I am expecting, what I'm expecting is that I have multiple accounts with Interactive Brokers, and this might be not the correct one, and that is why we are getting this error. So I need to check, and the other account ID is not handy with me, so please forgive me. I am extremely sorry for this. This go for Okay. Okay. Seeding further. The very last topic that we have is the with regards to REST API, which is the query parameters, okay, so see if I go to something like this, say I'm on the google.com Okay, and if I query for a pet, if I am, I'm just querying it, Okay, over here. Now see what happens is, once I query it, you see the URL. Could convert it into really large string. Now, if we copy this URL, okay, if we copy this URL, if we come here, okay, yeah, if you come here and if I paste it on the URL like this, let me just go ahead and let me remove the extra piece of information so that I can make it clear and easy for everyone. See what happens is this,

Speaker 1  2:39:02  
by now, you guys would have understood like, this is the base URL, okay. This is the, again, it might not be actually like, exactly true, but this is something that we what fits the terminology best for our whatever we learned so far. Okay, this is end point. Okay. Now what we see here is like, after this question mark, after this question mark, okay. Here we have some key value pairs, okay, here we have some key value pairs. So the very first key value pair is this Q. Q simply means for query. Okay, so we just query it for ePAT. Now this key value pairs that we see over here, which are appended by this M person sign over here. Okay, so these are the M person sign. Of after which multiple key value pairs are appended. These key value pairs are known as the query parameters. Okay, please remember, these key value pairs are known as the query parameters, and there could be many, and this query parameters are visible in the URL. So the URL that we send from the client to the server, whatever network devices that this URL goes through, every network devices, will be able to see this query para this query parameters. Okay. Now certain brokers, okay, certain brokers use this query parameter. Is a, is an alternative as an alternative to the payload? Okay, certain brokers use this query parameters as an alternative to the payload. Now, when, when we provide payload like this, okay, when we provide payload like this and we dump it to the data, to the JSON object, and we send it to the to the broker, usually this payload is not seen to the network devices, okay, they are usually hidden, right? But if we provide us some data, is a query parameter, okay? Is a query parameter, then this data would be seen by the network devices through which this request goes to the broker. Okay, and one of the use cases that interactive broker uses for this query. Query parameter is in fetching historical data. Okay, is in fetching historical data. So over here, to fetch historical data, we have first define the base URL, then we have the endpoint right. Then we define the whole URL. We then go and define headers and payload. Now they both are empty over here, because the information, the extra piece of information that the broker requires for this particular request, goes through query parameters rather than the payload, okay, rather than the payload. So over here, what we do is that we provide request dot get URL headers. Headers are empty data like or the payload is empty. But we have a third parameter over here. These are parameters now, these are the query parameters that we have defined over here. Now, if you see over here, these are the key value pairs. Okay, these are the key value pairs we do which we don't need to dump, which we don't need to convert to the JSON object. Why? Because they are going to be appended as a part of the URL, the whole URL, okay, so, yeah, this, this is something that I wanted to discuss before we jump onto the

Speaker 1  2:42:55  
web sockets. Okay. So now, if I go ahead and if I run this particular path, which is like, fetch historical data, okay? If I fetch historical data, see over here. In URL, we don't see, okay, in URL, we are not able to see the whole query parameters. Why is that so? Because this URL is something that we are printing over here, right, which is just like base URL plus endpoint, but whatever network devices that it went through this request went through all those network devices would have seen this piece of information that for what data, for what contract we are asking for the historical data. Okay, so now, by now, I am pretty much sure that you guys would have understood how to fetch for the data, how to make the request and how to how do we receive responses? Okay? And one more thing that you guys would like to notice over here is, for this particular request, we are using request dot get, okay? Why is that so? Because, of course, the documentation we have mentioned that we need to use the GET and not the post. Okay, so over here the HTTP method is the get method, right? So when it comes to rest API, we need to provide attention to these minor details. And once we do this, it becomes second nature about how how we make the request or how we receive the data. Okay, great. Any questions, anyone with regard to whatever we discussed until now, anyone

Speaker 1  2:44:35  
we do again? So the question is, how do you memorize coding inticracy? No, we don't Okay. We don't memorize this coding in any in any part of the coding. All we do is like we write code, we we try to understand what the documentation is, trying to say. We write code, we run it, it fails. We again, go to the documentation, we see what we did wrong, and then we try. To correct them. Okay, just like this 400 error, right? So I was debugging. I was trying to see what, what went wrong. Manjunath, one of our students over here, he mentioned that, Jay, why don't you go ahead and why don't you print the output? Okay, so I printed this output, and this output actually helped me to understand that I am providing incorrect account ID. Okay, so this is how it does. Like, after this class ends, I will go, I will check my what, what is my actual account ID, and I will correct it. So that is, that is how, what that is how we do. We don't memorize code. And memorizing code never works. Okay, great. So we are okay with the questions. So now that we are okay with this part, we can what we can do is that we can go ahead and we can now see how we can Okay. So what we understood until now is like how we could use REST API to perform trading operations, okay? And based on the architecture that we saw over here, we could go ahead and we could write functions that we that we would want to use, create basically a bunch of them, and use in our trading strategies, right? But what if we want to work with live data, okay? What if we want to work with streaming data like live prices or live order updates or live P and L updates, right? So if we want to incorporate that part, we need to use something known as the web sockets. So web sockets is a different technology compared to REST API. Now REST API is usually used in terms of clients of architecture wherein the client makes a request and resource responses, right? However, there are many trading operations, okay, which requires monitoring live things monitoring live data. Okay, so, for example, if we are watching some sports event, okay. So over there, it also uses these web sockets wherein the data gets broadcast. The same data gets gets broadcasted to millions of users. Okay. Likewise, over here, if the price data remains same, remains the same for all traders. So the traders who subscribe to a particular price data, they will be broadcasted to everyone. Okay? So we don't need to ask every now and then. So that is where the technology known as the web sockets come into picture. It uses asynchronous mode of communication, wherein first we need to connect to the broker, and then we ask. Then we need to authenticate ourselves. Once we authenticate ourselves, we need to ask, okay, or we need to subscribe that okay. We want data for this particular topic. Now the topic could be price data, it could be order updates. It could be PNL updates and whatnot. Once we subscribe to them, the broker will memorize it. The broker will recognize that part, and as in, when the new data is available with the broker, the broker will keep on broadcasting that data to us, to the clients. Okay, so this is what happens. So this is how it works. Now I'm going to demonstrate the streaming of data from another broker known as alpaca, because it is, it is one of the brokers who provides live data of crypto without paid account. Okay, so over here, I'm importing JSON. So you guys now know why we use JSON, because all the incoming data from server will come as the JSON, and we need to parse it, okay? Over here, instead of request library, we need to use the web socket library, okay, because request libraries are used to handle HTTP requests, web sockets are used to handle the live connections, or to basically handle incoming data. Then we import the warnings library to filter out any warnings, and then we use SSL, SSL library to handle the SSL certificates. Okay, over here, what I've done is is like, I have provided a code to

Speaker 1  2:49:31  
read my alpaca API keys. Okay, so if the structure of the alpaca key, this particular text file is very simple, you have the API secret code and the API key written over here, and it simply reads this part. Okay, so API key is in the first line in the API secret key is on the second line, right. Great. Let me just minimize this and then we'll. Come to this part. So, okay, the entry point of this code starts from here. Okay, so what happens is, so what we do is, like we say that we don't want to print any extra information, which we receive from the broker when connection gets established, okay, if I make it true, over here, all the internal communication between my Python program and the broker will be printed, which I don't want, okay. It is used to debug codes. So when you want to debug code, make it true, okay. Else keep it false. Next, what we do is we go ahead and we create the web socket application. Okay? And in the web socket application, we provide the URL on which the data is broadcasted. So every broker out there will have their own streaming URL, which is different from the base URL. So for example, over here, if I go to zero, the application zero, the if I go to the web sockets streaming, okay, it has WSS URL, the web socket endpoint, okay, likewise,

Speaker 1  2:51:29  
interactive broker also has another end point for the web streaming. So if we go to web sockets over here, right? This is their web socket. You are end point. So every broker will have their web sockets endpoint which is different than the base URL. So likewise, over here, this is the end point for the alpaca. Okay. Now in your code, the URL would be bit different, okay, then what is shown in my code. So let me just go ahead and let me type it over here, because today itself, I realized that they have changed the they have changed this code, so you guys might need to update it. Okay. Now what happens is, like over here, we open the web socket application. We provide the end point on which the data would be broadcasted, then we simply write for four functions. The first function is basically the first function will receive will be invoked when the connection gets open, okay, another function will be invoked by the server when it receives a new message from the server, okay. Third function will be invoked when any error occurs, okay. And the fourth function will be invoked when any when the connection gets closed, okay. Then what we do once we create this web socket application, we go ahead and we run that web application, web socket application for forever, okay? We say that, okay. You keep running these web socket application. You keep on listening data from the server for forever. Okay? For forever. So, you know, this is akin to that blue line kind of analogy that we discussed in the TPP 01, class, okay, which we executed on a separate thread, right? Okay, great. Now coming to these functions. So on open function will be called or invoked when the connection gets opened. On close will be invoked when the connection gets closed, on error will be invoked when the connection gets any error. Okay. In the own Open message on sorry. In the own message function, there are few things that are happening. The first thing that happens is like it simply converts the JSON message into the Python dictionary, okay, which we need to do. Then it simply says that if the connection is successful, okay, if the connection is if we are connected with the broker, then we need to authenticate ourselves. We need to send our FPA secrets. Okay, and we send it. We send our authentication data to the broker. So the process is like this, okay, first we connect to the broker, then we authenticate ourselves. Once we authenticate, it will tell us, like, whether we are authenticated or not. Once we are authenticated, we subscribe to a particular data. So over here we are subscribing to the we are subscribing to the Bitcoin data. And once we subscribe to the data, we simply keep on resisting the data. Okay, we simply keep on parsing the data that comes from the broker. So let me go ahead. Let me open a new terminal over here. Here. Okay, and run this function over here. So it says, so it will say that, once we are connected, it will say what has happened and but I believe the frequency of the data would be quite low, because it's Sunday evening, and I don't see much data to be coming in, but at least we should get something right. So let's wait for something. Let's wait for some time we should receive data, Incoming, incoming data. Okay, so by the time, let me take some questions, and then we can proceed further. So someone says, Could you please try BTC USD? So we are. We have already subscribed to the BTC USD only, okay, what do you mean by listing the data? So this is what I mean. Listing the data means we are. We are. We are actively listening for whatever incoming data it is, right? So these are the current bids and the ask that we receive. We are receiving from the alpaca. Okay, could you see, could you code to save web socket enabled in the note, paid file. Why do we want to do it? Not paid file? If I simply convert, if I simply write it true over here, then there would be,

Speaker 1  2:56:28  
like, quite a few, there quite a few data points over here, with regards to the connection, okay, which goes internally between the my client, Python, Python file, and the broker, alpaca. So enable stack trace gets usually needed to be kept true only when we want to debug things. Okay, great. So these things will keep on running until we close it. Right. So yeah, in case, if we, if you place the order in live markets, then in that case, we will be using the combination of rest, FPA and web sockets, absolutely right. So see over here.

Unknown Speaker  2:57:16  
Of course, although this works on the this is working from the to working from

Speaker 1  2:57:24  
the alpaca. I could open a new terminal as well over here, right? And if i So, this is the same application, the same logic, the same piece of code just return for another broker, which is the interactive broker, right? Now, interactive broker sends data in a bit different way. Okay, so over here, I don't have access to Bitcoin for the interactive broker over here, so I am asking for data from the asking for the data from for some NSE security, right? But again, the rest of the things remains the same. Okay, if I go ahead, if I do, do the same thing over here, right? So this agreement, this is for you, okay, like see, and see, we received the last data the last data points. Okay, we received the last data points. Now it could also happen, okay, now shares. This was the, again, this was the answer for your question, which is like, what if we keep enable stack trace to be true? So instead of, like, having just two lines, it basically printed, like hell, lot of lines over here, right? So yeah, we could go ahead and we could keep it false and Yeah, true. So agree. Now what happens over here? Like, if you want to fetch order status or PNL updates, right? What we can do here is like, see, this is the topic, okay, so over here, we need to create another, another topic that would basically subscribe to the order updates. Okay? That would subscribe to the order updates, and as in, when the updates on that order comes. Okay? We could go ahead and we could filter out here, right? So that is the functionality that almost all brokers nowadays provide, right? So if I go ahead, if I, if I hear,

Speaker 1  2:59:27  
here it is okay, so they say, so they have mentioned everything over here, like, what kind of, what kind of topic we want to subscribe to? Do we want to subscribe to PNL updates? Do we want to subscribe to price updates? Do we want to subscribe to order updates? What not? Okay, so, yeah, it also says account summary. So whenever anything changes in the account, it says, like, Okay, we get we need to. We can get that part.

Speaker 1  2:59:58  
Okay, that's a. Yeah, that's nice stage, okay, any, anyone, any questions with regard to whatever we have discussed so far. If not, then I would want to show you the, the the extra, the sample strategy that I provide along with this lecture, which is these two parts, right? So there are these two files that I provide along with this particular class, which is the base function. So the base function is akin to the disappear web API function, wherein I have written all the course related to the broker. Okay, so this base function file has all the broker specific code, right? And again, as you can see, it is nothing but those functions which are, which we which we are using for making trading operations, yeah, for trading operations, right? So we have, I have incorporated and everything in just one file, okay, so this is the broker specific function, and this is the strategy specific function. So what I do is like, I import all those functions in this file over here, and then I use web sockets using this threading mechanism, right? And so if we can see over here, threading and web sockets and everything into a single file, right, and this file only space focuses on the strategy logic, or the business logic, okay, wherein I provide all the strategy parameters, I provide what instruments to trade and what not, and all those things are defined over here, right? So here we send, we can see, this is the web socket related code over here, right? Then, this is the strategy related which is the REST API code over here, fetch historical data, fetch contract details, what status, okay, and all those things, all those stuff, right? So go ahead, take a look at these two files, and what you can do is like, if you want to port this code to some other broker, you just need to rewrite this, this piece of code, okay, nothing changes over here. Everything remains as it is. You can simply change these particular file to another broker. And what I have seen is like students from the previous pages have extended this code in a way that they have kept a parameter over here which defines the broker name, and they have created multiple base functions for multiple brokers, okay? And if they want to run this strategy for a particular broker, they simply change the broker name over here, and accordingly, the functions from that particular base function file would be used. So go ahead check how it suits your trading requirements and whatnot, and do let me know if you require any help or any assistance. Cool. How to zoom codes in spider, you just need to press Ctrl plus, control plus or control minus. What is the TCL function? TCL function is this one right, which simply keeps on sending a dummy request to the broker every like, every now and then.

Speaker 1  3:03:36  
Can you summarize API rest, also web socket ones? So again, it would be difficult, but I would try my best. So REST API is used to make any synchronous communication. Web sockets are used to make asynchronous communication. Use REST API for almost all training operations, apart from request apart from training operations where you want live data or you want to get broadcasted data, okay, broadcasting data, something like that, right? And REST API usually revolves around making HTTP requests and receiving responses, whereas the web sockets are used to stream live data. Okay, I'm pretty much sure that this was not just this to the what we discussed in the last three years. But, yeah, this is what it is. Okay, cool, yes, so this is what I had for you in the store today, the class is officially over. I am still here for a minute or two just to answer questions, but Yeah, can we use Jupyter Notebook for this activity, or spider is the best interface? Anusha for REST API, particularly for REST API, do. You could use Jupiter interface, right again, these web socket thing, okay, that we discussed in the last 2020, 25 minutes, Jupyter Notebook won't be the preferred choice, okay? Because it runs infinite loop, so it won't be the choice. Could you share the notepad? Oh, yeah, okay, I let me save this notepad. DBPs, underscore, 0220251228,

Speaker 1  3:05:36  
okay, sure. I would be sharing this file with you. Please get in touch with your support manager, they would be sharing it in the simple code that you provided. Where you Where are you storing the information coming through the web sockets in a file and using that file as an input to the strategy? No, no, no, no. So I am storing everything in memory. Okay? I am not storing anything in the web sockets, sorry, anything in the file or in the database. If you scale up this strategy, somehow, I would suggest you storing everything in the database, okay, not even the file, so. But over here, I am using everything in memory, which is like it would be on the RAM. It won't go through. It won't go to any persistent data storage right? Kishore, okay, great. Thank you so very much, guys for attending this class. I hope you guys learned a bit of how to use things stuff, and I am pretty much sure that you guys would go ahead and you would use it. I would be, I would meet you again in the in the few weeks time for the exciting machine learning lectures. Until then, take care and happy new everyone. Take care bye, bye, bye.

