Speaker 1  0:09  
Hello everyone. Welcome to this class on machine learning for trading. This is Jay here, and I will be the presenter for today's class. Before we begin, can you guys please confirm if I'm audible loud and clear?

Speaker 1  0:29  
It would be great if you guys can drop message on the chat box, and I hope you guys can also see my Jupiter notebook, perfect. Thank you so much, guys for the confirmation. I welcome you all to this very fast lecture on machine learning for trading, wherein we are going to cover the nitty gritties of how one can use machine learning as a tool in their quantitative trading journey. Okay, so this is the beginning of new module. Where are there will be around eight, seven to eight lectures in this module, which is on the machine learning for trading. We would be together for the initial three sessions, where the idea is to build foundation of machine learning and artificial intelligence. Okay, so in the initial three lectures that we are together, we will be discussing what, why and how of machine learning and artificial intelligence, and build a solid foundation that could be utilized for the sessions to come where you guys are going to use these foundational techniques to build your models and build strategies and analyze a hell lot of data, Okay, to extract insights from them. So in the initial three sessions, we are going to focus merely on the foundations. Right now that being said, when we started this module, there used to be around three to four lectures where we are, where we used to discuss and learn various techniques and how to use it in machine learning. Over the year, the field of machine learning has grown to an extent that it has now become a when we started, it was a subject. Now it has become a full fledged field, okay, and it is not practical to cover literally everything that you guys see and hear and get to know about machine learning out there, right? So what we are going to do is like we are going to focus on what is really used in the industry, and how they how those techniques are being used, rather than delving into the mathematical derivations of each of those models. Why, we would be covering the why part, but we we are largely going to skip the mathematical part of like, how that particular things are derived. Okay, so the idea here is to understand what this whole field is about, how we can leverage it in our industry, like in our course of work, that is the quantitative trading, and how we can utilize this as a tool to build strategies or to extract insights and what not, right? So that is going to be our agenda for the next three sessions. Where are we have ways wherein we are going to focus on what, why and how in particular dimension that is specific or tangible to our particular course of work that we do. Right? I will be taking some generalized examples from different fields as well to make it easier to digest. Okay, but that, but nothing is stopping us from delving delving deeper into why and what not. Okay, so keep this in mind right at any point in time you guys feel that you require more literature, more references to what is being discussed. And if you guys want to dive deeper into the derivations, feel free to ask. We would be sharing those with whosoever who demands for it, right? So that is, that is there. So keep in mind, we are going to look at machine learning from a from a particular perspective, and not machine learning in a generalized sense. So. It. So my job is to explain how it is used in the trading, in the trading, in the trading parlance. So that is what we are going to do, and that is how we are going to approach to this particular subject, right? I see that one of you mentioned multiple times that you are not like, I am not audible. Is this the case with everyone?

Speaker 1  5:27  
Can someone reconfirm if like, I'm audible? Yeah. Okay, so all good with others. Are others, right? Perfect. Okay, great. So we will begin our discussion by differentiating the terms AI, ml and DL. So A stands for artificial intelligence. It has become a field, okay, which consist of sophisticated mathematical algorithms that we could use to make machines learn. Okay. Now within artificial intelligence, we usually, we usually get exposed to two different sets of algorithms, broadly speaking, there they fall under machine learning and deep learning. So machine learning is a sophisticated set of algorithms, and deep learning is another set of algorithms which are inspired by how human how humans take decisions. Okay, so to explain you, like, what AI is, here is a small scenario that usually I near it to people whenever I explain, like, what AI is okay. So consider there is a remote town in some part of the world where a doctor resides in a town. The town is but the town populates around like 500 600 people. The Doctor practices over there, and she usually gets patients, which with particular set of trends, right? So she usually sees to the patient of similar nature, of similar, similar medical history and whatnot, okay? Once, once upon a day, a migrant or a visitor visited the town. He fell ill, and he decided to see the doctor. He went to the doctor, and the doctor sees the patient. And then Doctor has some, some doubts about like the diagnosis, the diagnosis that she is making. So she advises the patient to visit the nearby city and to undergo some various medical she advises the patient to undergo some reports and then come back, and then she'll verify like what she is diagnosing is true or not. Okay, so this is what happened in some part of the world, in a remote town where this doctor practices Okay, on the other part of the town that on the other part of the globe, there exist another doctor who practices in another town, and that doctor also faces similar scenarios, like the doctor in other part of the other part of the globe usually sees similar patients with similar medical history and what not okay, whenever a new person from a nearby town or a nearby city visits, usually before making any diagnosis, a diagnosis, he usually wants to take another opinion, right? So this is how this whole field is was working. Now there was an analyst similar to us who noticed this pattern, and the analyst went to the doctors, okay, and he said that the next time you advise any patient to undergo any medical reports, and when those patients come back to you And you diagnose those patients with certain treatment, okay, or whatever medical, medical illness that the person has, you just start labeling those medical reports, okay? So the doctor started doing those things whenever they. Doctor recommends any patient to obtain any medical reports. And when the person goes back to the doctor, the doctor will keep a copy of those medical records, and the doctor will label that record, which says that, okay, this person has this illness. This person does not have any any illness and what not so the doctors, doctors

Speaker 1  10:24  
in various towns, started collecting those records along with those labels. Okay? Now, after a while, the all those doctors who were collecting these kind of reports and labeling those reports with the illnesses that the patient has right correlates this data and hands it over to the analyst. Now, analyst goes back to his work, and analyst feed this data, the reports along with the labels of those reports right to the machine right, and he creates an artificial intelligent system, okay, which now can read those medical reports, okay, and based on the medical reports and whatever historical data that this particular artificial that this particular AI system has based on those historical records and the labels that the doctors have put on those reports, the AI now can diagnose just based on those report to a certain extent, okay with certain accuracy. So the analyst created an artificial intelligence system which reads the data, okay? And by looking at the data from the medical report and by accessing the historical data that the doctors have collected, which was fed into this AI system, the AI system now can make certain predictions with some accuracy, okay, so what happens is this particular analyst who created this system goes back to all those doctors and hands over to them, this AI system. Okay. Now what has changed is the next time any visitor or a new person goes to the doctor, and Doctor, if at all is under any kind of uncertainty, the doctor can use this AI system to take another opinion, to take second opinion, and to remove any uncertainty that the doctor might has Okay, and it is eventually reduced the treatment time, okay? And the person now is very in very rare cases, he is to now go to the nearby city to get a second opinion, or whatsoever. So in this whole process, what has happened is the analyst like us was able to create an artificial intelligence system using the natural intelligence of the humans. Okay, so why it is called artificial intelligence? Because the system that the analyst created can take certain decisions or can come off with those predictions that usually humans make, okay, and the system is able to do the the system is able to make those predictions because of the historical natural intelligence that we collected and we fed to a system. Okay. Now see here the one of the thing that we need to understand is AI is helping us making better decisions. Okay? So whenever I needed this story, people usually come, come back to me saying that, okay, does this mean like, eventually these AI systems are going to replace us? I'm of the opinion that they are not okay. We the natural intelligence. We the human beings who possesses like really good natural intelligence will still rule over this AI systems. We just need to know how to use them and in what scenarios we need to use them, right? So they are going to help us make us productive. They are going to help us make better decisions, right? So this is what the AI is when someone says that it is an AI system. A system is basically a system that takes certain decisions which are result of the natural intelligence collected by the humans. Okay, now, whenever the analyst fed that data to the machine, okay, what kind of machine it was, what kind of algorithms it was to which the. Data was being fed, okay? So those sets of algorithms, that the collective set of algorithms, are known as machine learning, okay, which is basically

Speaker 1  15:15  
the a certain set of rules, which takes decision in a certain way, right? So machine learning is basically a set of algorithms take that, take in the data and helps machine learn it, okay? And deep learning is a subset of those algorithms which are inspired by how humans make decisions. So we will be discussing deep learning in a great detail in the third lecture, right in the first and the second lecture, we would be touching upon multiple algorithms that fall into machine learning. And we will also discuss and learn how to build models, how to build models, how to evaluate those models. And what are the nitty gritties that we need to keep in mind while building those models? Okay, so this is what we are going to do. Yeah. So someone says similar situation happened at when at advent of computers? I agree. Ai, is there to aid humans to evolve? Certainly, that's true. Okay, great. So I hope this three terms, AI, ml and DLL, are clear to you. If not do, let me know. So now let's jump on to where machine learning can help us, okay, in what scenarios it can help us so that we can make our life much easier, okay? So the very first set of tasks where machine learning can help us, okay, so the question to answer is like, where ml or DL helps us? Okay, the very first scenario, or the set of scenarios it can help us is predicting a numerical value. Okay? Now, when I say predicting a numerical value, it could be anything. It could be predicting the stock price, or it could be predicting the options price. It could be predicting temperature. It could be predicting the mileage given by a vehicle. It could be predicting the height of a new baby bone. It could be the weight of the new baby bone. It could be literally anything, right? So where machine learning helps us is the first application of machine learning is to predict a numerical value, okay? In in trading parlance, it could be predicting the implied volatility. It could be predicting the returns of a portfolio in the in the near future and what not. This particular application has a name known as the regression task, okay, so in machine learning language, whenever we want to predict a numerical value, we say such tasks are known As the regression tasks.

Unknown Speaker  18:38  
The can help us is see Finding an object or observation. Okay, so we say that.

Speaker 1  19:01  
Let me put it this way, identifying a class we have, we have a fruit, okay, and we know that the particular fruit could be either banana or a guava. Now, if we just show the image of the fruit or to the machine, and we want the machine to identify which fruit it is right, like which particular class it belongs to, whether it belongs to the class banana or class guava, okay, or say, we give some kind of medical reports to the machine and the machine identifies, or the algorithm identifies, whether the person has cancer or not, right? So there are two classes a cancer, which is the positive class and it does not have like the patient does not have cancer the negative class, right? Or we give some. Reports, and the machine tells us whether the lady is a is pregnant or not, right? And we usually fail all around us. There are, like, numerous examples of this classification, right? We give a photo, and we ask the machine to recognize a person. So those of you who have used Facebook in early 2000s would have noticed that when you open the photo and without you being known, the Facebook will ask you, do you want to take this person? Okay, it is simply asking you, do you want to classify this person is x or y? Okay, so that is like identifying the class of an object or the observation, right? So in machine learning language, it is such kind of tasks are known as classification task. And the last set of tasks where the where machine learning can help us is to group similar stuff together. Okay? Or similar instances together, like, yeah, okay, let's say we, we we work in some e commerce company, and we have some data set with us, the customer data set with us, okay, we know that these are the data set contains multiple customers data, but how do we how do we cluster, or how do we group similar customers together? Okay? Or, let's say I am a portfolio manager. I usually deal in 3000 4000 stocks on a daily basis, and I want to run a particular set of strategies on some similar instruments together, on some similar stocks together. So how do I out of those 4000 stocks that I daily work with. How do I go and how do I group similar stocks together so that I can run specific kind of analysis on that, on those particular stocks? Okay, so obviously, one of the one very obvious way is to cluster or group those companies based on the sectors and whatnot. But again, I just, I just want to go. I just want to think out of the box, and I don't want to use the the regular way of grouping those companies right? In those cases, machine learning can really help us, and we will see this in the second class. If we have a set of bunch of companies. How can we cluster them together? At it so that we can apply certain some kind of analysis on those similar companies together. And this particular set of algorithm is this particular set of tasks are known as the clustering task. Okay, so machine learning helps us in three different tasks, predicting numerical value, which are known as the regression task, identifying the class of the of an object known as the classification task, and clustering tasks, which are like grouping similar instances together. So someone is a really good question, which is, like, how to avoid confusion between clustering and classification, so they both are fundamentally different. And we will discuss this, and you will, you will get to know, like, how different they are, okay, so they do sound similar, but they are fundamentally different.

Speaker 1  24:04  
Great. Now, one thing to note is machine learning is a field could be used for multiple things in our journey in quantitative trading. Okay, the very first set of, or I would say, the way, the very first way of using machine learning is to make forecast or make some predictions. Okay? It could be predictions about a numerical value, or it could be a forecast, or it could be predicting, predicting the classes or whatnot, all right? And the second way to use machine learning in quantitative trading is to help us, or is to do. We use in analyzing data, okay. Now, in in the second application there is analyzing of data, okay. We don't make any predictions. We simply use machine learning techniques to analyze data, okay? That is, we could use, for example, to group similar companies, okay, to group similar observations, or to reduce the dimensionality. Of data and whatnot, right? So again, I'm just giving you the brief overview about how machine learning is used in quantitative trading. As we progress, we will cover all these various applications of whatever we are discussing at this point in time. Okay, so we use when we want to make forecast of predictions. Okay? For here we use usually regression task and classification task. Okay. And over here, obviously you, you guys, got to know we use clustering task and also something sometimes known as the dimensionality reduction, which falls under the analysis part of the data. Okay, great. So to make forecast predictions, they usually refer to this regression or the classification task. And when it comes to clustering task, it usually involves analyzing data. So when we are using clustering task, we are mainly associated with with analyzing data, not any kind of prediction or something of those sorts. Okay, great.

Unknown Speaker  27:10  
Now, let me also go ahead and okay, let me explain it here on the

Speaker 1  27:21  
so these three tasks that we talk that we talk about, regression task, classification task and clustering task, right? They are also categorized into two parts, okay, the first part, the first category is supervised learning. So under supervised learning, force regression task and the classification task, okay, and then there is unsupervised learning, wherein one of the tasks that force is the regression is the is the clustering task, okay, excuse me, it also has a to an extent, unsupervised learning. Also has something known as dimensionality reduction, okay, although we won't be discussing it in the in the initial three lectures, but it does have right dimensionality reduction, so which simply says that, if I have data, okay, if I have data of, say, 100,000 rows by say, 10,000 column columns. Okay? Now I'm using rows and columns because I have not introduced the machine learning specific terminology, but you understand, right? So you have, we have data that contains one, 100,000 rows and 10,000 columns, which is like kind of a quite huge data right now, whenever we want to work with such a such data, the bigger the data, the higher the computation power, the computational power that we require, okay? Now in dimensionality reduction, what happens is, we can use those dimension, dimension of the tree reduction algorithms, and we can say that we could reduce this data set containing 100,000 records with 10,000 columns, 200,000 records to say six columns, okay, without losing any information. Okay, we, we would, you, we would lose some information, but the point is, we would retain much of the information which was available in the original data. Set, right? So is we will go further as we will dive deeper into you will understand like the bigger the data set, the higher the computational computational requirement, the higher the training time requirement and what not, right? So in unsupervised learning, there also follows a set of algorithms known as the dimensionality reduction algorithms, which will help us reduce the dimensions of the data, okay, without losing much of the information. Okay, we would lose some information, but that is okay. We would be able to retain most of the information, okay? And as a result, our computational requirement would reduce drastically. Okay, so again, we won't be covering this part until, like in any of these three lectures that we are going to spend together with other faculty member might cover it in the in the upcoming classes, but yes, it also exists. Okay, great. Now, what do we mean by supervised learning and unsupervised learning is something that we will discuss later. When I when I am going to explain you this, this task in detail, you guys will understand. What do we exactly mean by supervised learning and unsupervised learning? Okay, great, let me check if there are any questions pending. Spending.

Speaker 1  31:32  
Someone says, What about predicting scenarios or events? Yeah, we could use a classification classification algorithms for those kind of events. So, for example, so again, if you want to predict, or if you want, yeah, so Zubin asked like, what about predicting scenarios or events? So if you, if you want to say, predict whether a particular company is going to announce or is going to beat the estimates or not. Then you use classification okay. Because you are, you are trying to predict whether the company is going to post results which will beat estimates or not, okay. So there are two classes, it will beat this estimate. It will not right. So in this in the in that case, you use classification algorithm, or if you want, just want to predict the numbers, okay, based on whatever fundamental data, that data that you have, you want to predict what are the numbers that the company is going to announce, Right? In that case, you use regression task. Okay, great. So let me go ahead and let me scroll down here. So over here, we discuss the learning task. The first one we discussed like regression, which is about predicting the value, then classification, which is the like predicting the class of an instance. We will discuss this in a bit. Right? These two classification and regression, they are combined into something known as supervised learning, okay? And then we have clustering over here, which basically groups similar instances together, which falls under unsupervised learning. And machine learning usually comprises of two, supervised learning and unsupervised and unsupervised learning. Okay, so great. Now in our discussion about machine learning algorithm, we are going to focus largely on the classification task and the clustering task, regression task is one of our friends rightly mentioned over here that we use regression algorithms normally. How they are different when used with machine learning algorithms? No, they are not different. They are one in the same. Okay. In fact, regression is a type of machine learning, supervised learning algorithm, okay, so, and that is why we are not going to focus more on the regression task in these lectures. Okay, they are one in the same. You guys already know how to use regression task. You have built those regression functions, predicting nifty and some other stock in your statistics classes. Okay, so they are one in the same. Okay, it's it just so happened that in machine learning, it goes to much more deeper, okay, but which you guys will able to resonate when we discuss this classification in the unsupervised classification in the clustering task. Okay, great. So let's go ahead and let's discuss the classification task, what it is and where it is used and what not. Okay, great. Now see to understand classification better. What we are going to do is like we are going to take an analogy where we. Want to train a kid. Okay? So we want to train a kid to identify some stuff, right? So just imagine a scenario that we have a kid and we want to train the kid to identify some some objects, right? So let's go ahead and let's discuss this part, just keeping the keep this in the back of your mind that you are training a kid, right? So if you're training a kid, what are your usual thoughts would be? What like? How would you usually behave? Okay, say, we expose the kid with bunch of this stuff. Okay, we the analyst who is training the kid knows what this what this stuff is, but the kid does not know what this stuff is. Okay? So if you, if you observe the kid when it is being exposed to any new stuff for the first time, what does the kid do? The kid will go, and the kid will first touch this stuff, okay, thereby subconsciously recognizing the texture of these, whatever this object is, okay. Then the kid will try to lift this particular object, and thereby recognizing the weight of this particular of these objects, okay,

Speaker 1  36:27  
the natural tendencies of the kid is to first touch and explore the stuff, okay, and then they will lift it up. And after lifting they will try to again, go ahead and taste it, okay, regardless the kids, kids does not. Kids do not know whether it is eatable or not, right. So the the general tendencies of the kids would be to go ahead and taste it. So they will go ahead and they will taste it, thereby registering the taste of this particular object, right, which would be somewhere around sweet or the mild, sweet kind of stuff, right? So, essentially, what kids are doing is kids are exploring various properties of the stuff, what of the whatever stuff that the kid is exposed to? Okay? Then, naturally, out of curiosity, the kid will, like, put whatever object he has taken, and he will pick up another object, thereby, like repeating the same process, about filling the texture, like lifting it up, okay, and then again, testing it and whatnot. So the kid does similar stuff with all of all these objects, okay, thereby the kids that the kid is learning what this object is, okay. Next, we expose the kid to some other set of objects. Okay, we expose the kid with other set of objects. And when the kid will recognize that something very distinct has now been available for me, the kid will put the first object down and will again process like repeat the same process of exploring the texture, lifting up, okay, tasting it. The kid will repeat the whole process again with this, another set of objects. Now, when the kid is going to explore the properties of this, another set of objects the kid will recognize that, okay, the texture of the other set of the objects is very different than the first one. Okay, the first one was very soft. These are like, quite not so soft. These are like, quite bumpy and quite like rough in nature. Then the kid is going to recognize the difference in the color itself, okay. Then the kid is going to lift it, lift it up, and it will the kid will recognize that it is much lighter than the previous one, okay. And then the kid will try to taste it. The kid might be able to taste it, and the kid will recognize, again, the very distinct taste from the previous set of objects. Okay, so all these objects that the kid is exposed to, okay, they are known as the observations, okay, so the kid is exposed to the observations of different sets of objects, and what the kid is doing, the kid is exploring the properties of these objects, right, like weight, color, taste, shape and all those things, right? And the kid will actually understand the difference. Preferences, right? The kid will get to the kid will understand that the first set of objects have similar properties, and seconds, the another set of object has similar properties, but nature, okay, so these properties that that the kid is exploring, they are known as the features. Okay? They are known as the features. Now we is the analyst are supervising the kid. Okay? We the analyst are supervising the kid in a way that the kid only explores the features in a in a restricted manner. The key if the kid, the kid does not eat anything, apart from the observations and what not right? So we are observing the kid. We are supervising the kid, and we is the analyst. Already know. We is the analyst already know what these objects are. So we are going to go ahead and we are going to label these objects for the kid. I repeat we is the analyst, know the labels of these objects, and we are going to label these objects for the kid. Okay, so we would

Speaker 1  41:21  
teach the kid that the one that you see in orange in color are known as the oranges, and the one in the red that you see are known as the apple. Okay, so this is what we are telling the kid, that this particular set of object, or this particular set of fruit is known as orange, the another set of fruit is known as Apple, and we are labeling those fruits on behalf of the kid. Okay, so the kid knows that what is like, which one is Apple and which one is orange right now, see, in this whole process of training a kid, what does that kid will do, or what is going to happen in the kids mind is based on the features, okay, based on the features of these observations of these fruits, okay, the kid is going at the kid is going To form a relationship, or form some kind of association, okay with the features and the labels. Okay? Now, in future, the next time the kid is going to get exposed to this particular fruit or any any similar fruit, the kid will get to know that it is an apple. Okay, we don't need the kid to make it learn again. The kid himself will be able to predict, like, what is an apple and which one is an orange. Okay, so somewhere when we were training a kid, the kid built the association between the features and the labels, okay, between the features and the labels. So this is very important. Okay, please pay attention. Like the forming of association, the forming of relationship between the features and the labels, is at the core of the classification task right now, if we if you want to convert it, if you want to quantify whatever we have discussed until now, we can quantify it, and we can go ahead and and we can see like how it could, how it could, how it looks, instead of Yeah, in the context of data set. Okay. So over here, I have a simple data set, wherein rows, the rows that we have over here, are the observations. Okay, so we have quantified the features or the properties of those observations right over here, and we created the two dimensional data set. Okay, we created the two dimensional data set, right? So we have weight, color, taste and shape. So these four properties, or the or is, they are known as features in the machine learning, okay. They are given here is columns, okay, and each row contains the quantified, the quantified value of each of those properties, okay, and then what we have over here is the target variable, or also known as the label, okay, so label is known as the target variable in the machine learning language, and the properties are known as the features. So going forward, I would be using the terms features and the target okay? So we have this simple data set over here, right, and for each observation over here. So we have the feature the feature set, and the feature set has the associated target variable or the associated label. Okay, so if the weight is 190 grams, the color is orange yellow. If the taste is sweet and shape is slightly oval, then it is an orange. Okay, likewise. So what happens over here that while we are training a kid, the kid explores the observations, and when we say it is explored like the kid is exploring the observations, the kid is actually exploring the features of the observations, and thereby we also tell the kid that, okay, this is an apple, this is an orange, and the kid is forming this relationship between the features and the labels. Okay, now the next time we go and we

Speaker 1  45:54  
just give this data to the kid, right? Something like, for example, this one, okay, like the the weight is 158 grams, the color is red, the taste is sweet, and the shape is round, and we ask the kid to identify whether it is an orange or the apple. Okay, again, of course, the the CLASSES ONLY. The classes would be only two, either orange or an apple? Okay? So it is highly likely that the kid would be able to identify or predict, okay, or predict that it is an apple. Okay. So this is the testing data set, the so called testing data set as such, okay. But again, the kid just gets to know based on the learning that happened in this in the learning phase, okay, like then if the color is orange and the weight is something like and if the paste is tangy, then it is likely to be an orange, like this. Okay, so I hope this is clear. If someone has any question, please feel free to put in in the question box, proceeding further to train a machine. So to train a machine is very similar to train a kid. Okay, the process is very similar. While training a machine, all we do is we take observations, okay, we then go ahead, and then we create features of those observations, okay, and then we put or we create those labels. So for example, in our field, the observations could be historical, Open, High, Open, High, Low, Close data. Okay, the features could be technically, technical, technical indicators, or the statistical properties or the seasonal factors that one could derive from the historical observations and what not. Okay, so in our, in our, in our field, these are these. These could be the features, and depending on how we would want to study the market, okay, we could come up with the labels, right? So one of the like, one of the ways to create labels is to say, decide whether the markets are going to go up or down. Okay, so if you want to predict whether the market or the stock is going to go up or down. So these are the labels that we need to create, right? See, these are the labels that we need to create and that we need to come up with something very similar to what we came up with over here, right? So there is nothing that stops us from saying that these are, say, for example, ABC and these are XYZ. Why did we choose Apple and oranges? Because we know that is what, how that is what the conventional is that that is how the normal people would use or would label. But if we would want to label this particular set, this particular object, or this particular set of objects, as is ABC and this particular set of objects is XYZ, we could do that, right? Nothing is stopping us from doing those things. So likewise, over here, we need to come up with labels. Now, the one of the ways to come up with labels is to come like, up and down or up, or it could be buy, sell or hold and whatnot, right? So, this is how it gets translated in the trading field. Okay, next, if that is so, what? How would a sample data set look like? Okay, how would a sample data. Does it look like? So let me show you a simple data set over here. So over here we have historical data. Okay, when I say historical data, we have open, high, low close data. Historical open high, low close data. And from historical open, high, low close data, we generated certain features. So what you see over here in with the red header, they are the features. Okay? Now, how do, how did we create these features and water? We will come to this part in this class itself. But again, at this point in time, we just need to understand that these are the features, okay, for whatever historical data that we have.

Speaker 1  50:45  
So, so these are the features, and then we have these labels over here. Okay? So these are the labels that we have over here that we have also created. See. So one on the on the one, one hand, we have the features, and the other hand we have the labels. Now, labels are one and zero. So over here, one means the stroke went up the next day, and zero means the stock went down the next day. Okay, so for whatever historic data that we have, we have these two labels, one and zero. Okay, great. Now, in what are different applications of this classification algorithms? Okay, so classifications could be used in multiple ways, in trading again, the first obviously, is to identify whether the stock will go up or down the next day or in the next end trading periods. Right? Or we could also create data set that will tell us whether, whenever a signal gets generated by a trading system. Should we really trade on that system, on that signal or not, right? So if we help our trading system, and we know that the trading system generates trading signals every now and then, so instead of just relying on that trading signal. Okay? Instead of just relying on the trading signal, we go ahead and we put it an additional layer of machine learning over there, and we ask the machine like, okay, when, whenever the buy signal or the sell signal is generated. Should we really take that signal? Should we really trade on that part? Right? And another very similar application is to is to use to identify whether the current candle is going to be green candle or the red candle. Right now, by doing so, we can optimize the price is okay. So for example, say, at this particular moment you got the buy signal, okay? And the moment you get the buy signal, you ask the machine to predict whether the current candle is going to be the red candle or the green candle. If the machine tells you that the current candle is going to be the green candle. Then you enter into the market immediately. You don't wait for the candle to get completed, right? That is first scenario say you get buy signal, but your machine says that the candle is going to be the red candle. Okay, then you wait until the candle gets completed. In that case, you are going to get better price. Okay, in that case, you're going to get better price. So classification could be used in multiple ways. These are just one of a few of you of the ways that I have listed over here. But yeah, you get the bigger idea right? Any questions, anyone with regard to whatever we have discussed until now, let me go ahead and let me check the Q, A,

Speaker 1  54:17  
if we have to teach the system each and everything. How is that machine learning? No, so we have to, okay, so this is really good question, like, ml means it learns itself. So basically we have to feed data. Okay, we have to adjust how we gave this data to the kid, okay, the kid explored those features on its own. Okay, we just gave kids two things, the observations, okay, along with the features, and then we also gave the labels, right? The kid learned the relationship between the features and the labels on its own. Okay? So. So likewise, if we go, if we take this example, okay, let me, let me open up the sample data set over here. If we take this example, what we what we are going to do is we are going to feed these features to the machine along with what has happened in the market. So we say, we are going to say that these are the these were the features, okay, on this particular date, and on the next date, the market went up, or the stock went up, okay, these were the features. These were the features. And the next day the market, the stock went down, or it did, it went down, right? So these are the features and the labels that we are going to give to the machine. Now it is the machine's responsibility to learn the association between these features and the labels. Okay, it now it is the machine's responsibility to learn the association between the features and the labels the next time, once the machine learns Okay, once the machine comes up with the tries to establish that relationship, once the machine tries to understand how the features in the labels are related to each other. Okay? The next time we are only going to go ahead, we are going to compute these features, and just going to provide the features to the machine. And the machine will tell us whether the stock is going to go up or down. Okay, something very similar to what I what we see here, see, so this is my training data set, right? The next time I'm just going to, like, give these features to the kid, okay, next time I'm just going to give these features to the kid, and the kid will tell me whether it is an apple or an orange, right? Himanshu, so this is what we do. So this is what we do. There is another question, which is, like in trading, are we treating Date Time column? Is another feature, or are we ignoring the date time feature? Most likely we are going to ignore the date time feature, at least for the models that we build, okay, at least for the models that we build, we are going to ignore this date time, and that is why I have I haven't marked or I haven't marked this marked it as read, okay, because they are just, it is just going to be ignored. But what I have seen is many researchers, many practitioners, are the many practitioners. They do use date and time as features. Okay? So they will create multiple new columns. Each column will contain the minute, another column will contain the R, the and what not. So basically, they are going, they their hypothesis usually is to capture, like, if anything happens on any particular time of the week or the time of the day, they could capture those anomalies. Okay? So for example, there are many mutual funds, and there are many hedge funds who usually needs to roll over their positions in the last week of the expiry, okay? Or they need to buy new stocks right whenever they get whenever people, like normal people like us, invest in the mutual funds or not. So they usually have this fixed schedules, when to buy, when to roll over and do stuff. So if they want to capitalize on those stuff, they can go ahead and they can add this date and time as features. Okay, so it could also be done. We shall. I hope that answers your question.

Speaker 1  58:59  
Great. Main access. Can you give some real life quantuml use cases? Again, we have just started may neck, please be with us over here as we go it, we will be diving more and more deeper and use you start realizing like, how it is used, right? So we are just like again, in the very first hour of the machine learning and whatnot. But again, we'll come to that eventually. That is going to be our end goal, right? So please be with us. Okay, great. Moving to the next set of tasks, which is the clustering task. Okay, we want to be spending much time over here it's we would understand how it is used, what it is, and then we'll move on to the model building activity. Okay, great. Okay, clustering. So in classify. Presentation, okay, before, before we ask, before I explain clustering. Let me give you one more detail. So remember this classification task, okay, they it falls under the supervised learning, okay. Now why it is supervised learning? Because whenever we build classification task, okay, we need to create, we need to create a we need to have these labels. We need to create those labels by like, again, these labels are created by us, the analyst, the supervisor, okay, just like, just like how we gave this labels to the kid, okay? So these labels were given by us, the the analyst, so the supervisor, so we were supervising the kid over here, the who is learning, okay? And we gave those labels to the kid, likewise, over here, these labels are created by us, okay? So this is where we are supervising the machine, like the machine should learn in a specific way. If certain events happen, those events are labeled in in a way that we understand it, right? So we could say that. We could say that whenever the stock goes up, okay? Instead of labeling it one, we could label it as as 20, okay. Whenever the stock goes down, instead of labeling it as zero, we could label as something else, anything, okay. But over here, we are labeling them as one and zero, which is a conventional way, okay, so what events are we labeling? Okay, now, why are we not labeling something very different? Say we would label these events as so over here, over here. Label equals to target. So we are saying that the target is basically whenever the stock goes up or down. Now quantitatively, when we say up or down, we simply say that whenever the whenever the stock post positive returns on the next day, which is the event of positive returns, right? Whenever the stock post negative returns on the next day, right? So we are seeing that. So we are saying that the way the target variables are defined, is up to us, right? Another way to create target variable is to say we would be saying we would be labeling one, okay, only when. So. Another way is to create target variable is like, whenever the stock goes 5% up, okay, that is when we are going to create the that is, that is, that is when we are going to label it is one else we would be labeling zero, right? So we would say, like this, this, all are zero, okay, this is one, right? So what, what does this mean? Is that over here, why these all are zero? Because even on this day, the stock go went up, the stock did not go up 5% okay, likewise over here, the stock still went up, but, but the stock did not go up 5% we would be labeling one only when the stock goes up 5% so this is just another way to create labels or the target variable, right?

Speaker 1  1:03:31  
So keep this in mind like why it is called supervised learning, because we are supervising how the association among the features and the target is to be learned. Okay? How the machine is going to pay attention to the data and how the machine is going to learn from the data is by supervising the target variable. So this is very important right now. This also has labels right now. What about regression task? So regression task usually also has labels, right? So over here I have a simple data set. So I am not going to go deeper into like, what regression task is like, because you guys already know it, right. But if we have to look at data, what, what kind of data it could be, right? So over here, we have a similar data and the data over here that we see contains features, okay, so these are the these are some various features that we could use to predict some numerical value next day. Okay, we could use these features to predict some numerical values the next day. So over here the feed, the target variable that we have, okay, contains numerical values. See it is like negative zero point 88 negative two point 41, and what not. So these are basically the next days returns in percentage terms. Dollars, okay, to 0.88% two point 41% what not so, these are the returns. Now, the difference between the regression task and the classification task is the regression task on the target variable in the regression task would always be numerical in nature, okay, whereas the target variable in the classification task is going to be in classes. Okay, so we have coded those classes, so we say the classes are up and down. These are the two classes which are numerically, numerically coded either either a zero or one, okay, so keep this in mind. Like regression and classification, they both are going to have classes. Sorry, they both are going to have target variables. The classification task is going to have classes. Is the target variable, and target variable in the regression task would have numerical values. So keep this in mind before you start building your any, any of the models and see like, what, what we are actually trying to achieve, okay? And the second part is in the second thing is, by building these targets, we are supervising the algorithm in a way, how it will learn the association, okay, in a way, how we are learning, how it will learn the association between the target and the features, okay? It could also happen that instead of predicting the next day's percentage return in the in the regression task, we could predict the percentage returns five days hence. Okay, so I want to predict what would be the returns after five days, okay? What would be the returns after seven days? What? Not so again, we can control how the target variable is to be designed, is to be created, right? Once we start building more elective models, you, you guys, will understand more like, again, what I'm trying to refer, okay? And as a result, these are known as supervised learning, okay. So over here, we have another diagram, which says it supervised learning is a learning where we provide input data with labels, okay, labels or the target variables, and then we have this unsupervised learning, okay, wherein we have input without labels. Okay, let's touch upon this part now, right? And then we have the another kind of learning, which is known as enforce reinforcement learning, wherein we could provide data with and without labels, right? And we could go ahead, we could map it, we could use it to use it for unsupervised, supervised, either, right? So there is a dedicated there will be a dedicated class on the reinforcement learning in this module going forward. Okay, so I am not going to touch upon the reinforcement learning at this point in time, but there will be a dedicated class, so I hope a supervised learning is clear. Let's move on to the unsupervised learning, wherein we are going to discuss the clustering. Okay, before that, let me see if there are questions with the code machine learning in spider or Jupiter. I'm going to use Jupiter, but again, regardless, we could use either. Okay, great, excuse me.

Speaker 1  1:08:35  
Okay, let me go to the clustering part now.

Speaker 1  1:08:44  
So, as we discussed a few minutes ago, that the machine learning could be used for two distinct purposes, right? The first one is to forecast or predict something, and the other major application is to use in the analytics. Okay, that we have some some kind of data, and then we want to use that data to extract insights from it. So clustering, or the dimensionality reduction, these are the applications which are used in the analytics side, rather than the forecasting side. So in clustering, we know that the cluster. What does the clustering do? Is the clustering tries to group similar data together, okay? So let's say that we work in some e commerce company where we have a data set of customers, okay, and I take the data set, just two features of the data set, okay? And what I do is, why? I go ahead and I plot a scatter plot. I chart this, get a plot of those data set, of those customers data, okay. So each circle that you see here represents an individual customer. And I just want to go ahead and I want to classify the group of customers which are similar in nature. Okay, now see, at this point in time I, or myself as a is an analyst? Don't know, okay, don't know how these customers are similar in nature. This is where it differs from the classification task. In classification, we were knowing that, like the set of observations has two distinct classes right over here. We ourselves don't know. We just know that we have a set. We have certain data set with us, but we don't we ourselves don't know how similar or different each of these customers are right now. See, this is a set of this is the set of observations that we have, and we also know that from the whatever data set that we have, the features of these customers are, like, height, weight, hair color, body shape, length of forms and whatnot. So these are the features of the data set that we have right over here in clustering. What we do is we just have these features about the customers. We give this data to the machine learning algorithm, and we ask the machine learning algorithm to segregate these observations or these customers into two groups. See what we are saying is we take, we take these observations along with features, right? We give this data to the machine learning algorithm, okay? And we ask the machine to segregate or cluster, or create two clusters of customers based on this data, that is, you go ahead and you create two groups right of similar customers with each other,

Speaker 1  1:12:09  
and this is what the machine learning algorithm will give us back. Okay, the machine learning algorithm will tell us that, okay, these are the two, two clusters of customers having similar properties. Now, this is very true example. This is not but again, this is good enough to understand, like, what, what, what clustering means right now, once the machine learning has identified the clusters, I repeat, once the machine learning has identified the clusters. Okay, it is up to us, the practitioners, the analyst who is analyzing this data, to provide context to these clusters. I repeat once the machine learning algorithm provides us with the clusters. It is up to us, the analyst, to provide context to these clusters right now, what kind of marketing campaign to run on Cluster One, and what kind of marketing campaign to run on cluster two, and then it depends on us, okay? So we could go ahead and we could, once the machine learning algorithm says us that, okay, there are these two similar clusters together, we could pick any of the clusters and start digging into it, like how all these observations in one of the clusters are similar and how the observations in another clusters are similar in the in that particular cluster, and it could turn out that, it could turn out that the clusters that the machine learning algorithm has came up with, okay, although it is not in the features, is based on the gender. Okay, although there is no gender in the features the machine learning algorithm might have been able to clusters. Came up with the clusters based on the gender. This is a this is just an example. It could be literally anything. Okay, and we see over here, there are, there are, there are misclassification as well, which is likely to happen. Okay, another example. Say we have another observation, we have another data set whose observations are plotted over here, and we have the same set of features. Okay, we have the same set of features. We go ahead and we ask the machine learning algorithm to come up with three different clusters of the customers, we ask the machine learning algorithm to come up with three different clusters of algorithms, and this is what it comes up with. Okay, this is what it this is what it comes up with. And now again, it is up to us, the analyst, to provide context to each of these clusters. Okay, what these clusters are and what not it is, it is entirely up to us, like, whether we want to run some kind of campaign or not. Like, could we run campaign or not? Again? Everything, right? And when we dig deeper into these clusters, we get to know that they belong to different set of people, okay, they belong to different set of people which are very similar in nature, which are very similar in how they place orders, how much like what of what value they place your and whatnot, right? So this is what clustering is, wherein we just need to feed the features. Okay, we don't know the classes. We don't have classes even with us. We just feed the features, we just fit the data to the machine, and we just ask, like, group them in three clusters, four clusters, five classes, whatever. And once the machine does that, we can assign context to those clusters ourselves. Okay, so this is what the clustering is about in machine learning. We'll dive deeper into model building activity of clustering in the next class. Okay, let me go ahead and let me again, simple data set. Do I have simple data set here? Let me let me see I do have simple data set of it. It won't be here. It won't be it would be unsupervised data set cluster here, over here,

Speaker 1  1:16:29  
so over here we I have these two features. So these are just the features, okay, these are not so we don't have a concept of labels of the target variable in the clustering algorithm. These are just two features of 50 different companies. So if I see you, yeah. So these are, these are 50 different companies. Okay, so this company, it could belong to company April, this could belong to company Amazon. This could belong to company Google, this could belong to company Chevron. This could belong to Tesla and whatnot. Okay, so these are the returns in the volatility two features of 50 different companies. And now, when we provide this data to the machine learning algorithm, what it will do is it will basically tell us that, okay, this company belongs to cluster one. So these are the clusters, and this will be given to us by the machine we are not providing it. Okay, be mindful that these, these combination belongs to cluster one, this belongs to cluster three, this belongs to cluster two, this belongs to 2231211333,

Speaker 1  1:17:39  
likewise. Okay. So once the machine provides us with the clusters, it is up to us to dig deeper into those similar companies together and go ahead and make whatever analysis we want to make it okay. So keep this in mind. Let me go ahead and let me see the questions. And yeah, where do we use clustering in trading? So clustering has like, I would say, clustering is extensively used in Portfolio Management, wherein you use clustering algorithms, like hierarchical clustering for building portfolios or building the to to manage the risk exposure in the portfolios and whatnot. Okay, so portfolio optimization clustering is really good application in portfolio optimization, that is first another application where clustering is used in the quantity industry, is in the risk management, okay? So if we have 1000s positions in the market, and we want to know the real time risk, how much risk are we are do we have in real time? People use clustering a lot. Okay, so, yeah, clustering of the open positions based on the risk exposure is one of the, like, really prominent application of clustering in quant Okay, let me take questions now. I

Speaker 1  1:19:28  
so someone is saying, instead of giving explaining oversimplified examples, it would be great if you could give practical trading examples of global and Indian markets. So yes, Suresh, I do really understand you. But what if I direct, what if I go ahead and if I directly tell you, like, Okay, this is what it is. It is and it is not, and you don't even understand, like, what clusters are, right? So please be with me. I'm going to cover, I'm going to come to that part that. There. But it doesn't make sense to directly go ahead and explain stuff that without explaining the fundamentals. Please be with me in clustering problem. Should we tell the machine how many clusters to be formed? Yes, Vira, we need to tell them. We need to tell them, like, how many clusters do we do we need? Because, as we saw here, as we saw here, we are just providing features to the machine, right? We are not providing any in any extra context. So the machine, what the algorithm, won't know what these features are. So we need to often. We need to tell them, how many clusters do we want, right? Great. So someone says, is labeling a subset of classification? No. So when we say labeling, we are simply saying we want to create the target way at the target variable. Okay, so labeling is often used in the context of classification, target variable is often used in the context of supervised learning, and when we say supervised learning, it includes both classification and regression, right? Rahul, so, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:21:26  
great.

Speaker 1  1:21:32  
So we learned about classification. We learned about the learning task, the categories that they are into. Now we will move on to our very first algorithm, which is the logistic regression. Okay, so over here, when it comes to classification algorithm or any other algorithm, right? We usually have tons of algorithms out there. Okay, what you see on the screen are the are just some of the selected algorithms that could be used either for regression or classifications, right? And then there are some algorithms which could be used for both purposes well, which we'll see in the next class, which is the decision tree and the random forest. Over here, we are going to start our model activity with the very first algorithm, which is the logistic regression. Okay, so logistic regression is an algorithm that is used for the classification part. So let's discuss the logistic regression algorithm, and then we will move on to we will go for the break, and then after the break, we will start our first model building in Python. Okay, so please pay attention over here for the for the next 20 minutes, guys, then we will take the short break. Okay, great. Before we start, before we learn logistic regression, it is empirical to discuss how the linear regression works. Right. In linear regression, we usually have an independent variable and a dependent variable over here, the independent variable over here, the independent variable is on the x axis, which is the RSI, and on the y axis, we have the asset value or the stock value on the which is the dependent variable. This both variables, the RSI and the asset value. They are numerical in nature. Okay, the RSI is a numerical and asset value is also numerical nature. And what we see on the screen is the scatter plot of the prices versus RSI, right? And this particular scatter plot shows that the higher the RSI, the higher the asset value. Okay, it could not be true all the time, but for this example, it is what it is, right? And the scatterplos that the chart that we see also shows a positive relationship between the RSA and the asset value in linear regression, what we try to do is we try to fit the line of best fit, or we try to come up with a model, okay, that best represents the data. Okay, so this red line that we see over here is a model for us, okay, which is

Speaker 1  1:24:43  
simply tells us, if we have the RSI value, what would be the asset value, okay? And how do we come up with this red line or this model? This model, also known as the line of best fit, is simply aligned and. That minimizes the distance of each individual point, okay, with this with respect to this line. So whenever the square of the sum of the distances between this line and each each of these individual points is minimized, that becomes our line of best fit. Okay, this is what you studied in the statistics class. And this red line is often known as the model that we are going to work with. This red line, or also known as the line of best fit is given to us by this particular formula, or the linear linear equation, alpha times RSI plus beta, where, where alpha is the coefficient of this RSI or this independent variable, and beta is also known as the intercept. So this works fine when we have numerical value is independent variable and numerical value is independent variable. Okay, so we have over here RSI is the independent variable. Asset Value is the dependent variable on the Y axis. However, if I change my dependent variable, which is numerical nature to something like stroke direction, okay. Or something like the binary variable, which can take only two values, either zero or one, okay. Something like what we have over here, the target variable here, is the target variable here could have only either of the two values, zero or one. So what if I change my target variable from a numerical variable that could take any any value, any numerical value, to a variable that could now take only either zero or one? Okay, so if I do that, and if I keep my independent variable the same, the RSI, okay, the scat upload changes a lot. Okay, the scatter plot changes a lot. Now, if I go ahead, now, if I go ahead, if I try to build, if I try to build a model or fit the line over here right, where the independent variable is still numeric and the stroke direction of the very the dependent variable is binary in nature. And if I build the model over here or the line right? What happens is the line is not fitting my data well. In my previous scenario, where the data was actually correlating with like, okay, my line, the model that we came up with, okay, was passing through the data. In other words, it was fitting the data. Well, that is what we see over here. It was a my line, the line that we got over here, the model that we got here is able to represent the structure of the data. Okay, the line, this red line that we got over here, which is our model is able to represent the true nature of the data over here, but the moment we changed the dependent variable from numeric value to a binary value. And now when we try to build such a line, or we come try to come up with a model, the model largely fails. Okay? Is the model is not able to represent the true nature of the data. The able the model is not now able to represent what the actual data looks like. And it doesn't matter what line or What model do I come up with? None of these models are actually able to represent or able to fit the data well, okay, so what do we do in this scenario? We still go ahead. We still try to fit the line of best fit, okay, and come up with this linear equation. And come up with this linear equation, which is, again, alpha times RSI plus beta, wherein alpha is the coefficient of this feature that we have over here.

Speaker 1  1:29:30  
Okay. Once we come, once we build this linear function, see this linear functions is still going to have very high error. Okay. Why? Because, if we see the distance from this individual point to the model is good, is very high over here, okay. And if we sum up the difference, if we sum up the differences, the sum of square of differences of this individual data points to the model, the sum is going to be very high. E, okay, yet we are going to fit the line of best fit over here. And then what we do is we pass this linear function. We pass this linear function to something known as the logit function. Okay, we pass the linear function z, which is given as alpha times RSI plus beta, and we pass this function to something known as logit function, which is given as one upon one plus e raised to the negative z. When we do this, when we pass the linear function to a logit function, what happens is thus the straight line that we got in with the linear equation, changes its shape, and it fits the data well, and it becomes the S shaped curve. Okay. Now we see the line that we got over here is fitting the data quite well. Okay, it's fitting the data quite well. So now, if I say that if I have only RSI value, if I know that, if I have now, like really high RSI value over here, which is this one, okay, over here, then the corresponding model would be over here, which says that the data, the direction, could be one, okay, if I have RSI value over here, okay, then it says that the direction could be zero, okay, like this. So these are, let me just draw the line over here. Like this. Okay.

Speaker 1  1:31:43  
Like this, right? So, this is my ash shaped curve. Is okay. Now, if I have this part, sorry, I need to draw this. I

Speaker 1  1:32:03  
Okay, once I have this logit function and this CO over here, the output of this logit function that we get here is not binary, but it is going to be a probability. Okay, the output over here is going to be the probability. So the output of this logit function is going to be between zero, or is between going to be between zero and 100, okay, so what we see is, if the output of this logit function is greater than 50% then we say that the stock direction is going to be one, is the stock direction is going to be zero. Okay, so what we see, what we say over here is like we took the linear function, we pass the linear function to something known as a logit function, or the sigmoid function, and the sigmoid function gives us the probabilities, and that probabilities lies between zero and 100, and whenever the probability is greater than 50, then we say that the stroke is going to the stroke, the stroke direction is going to be one, which is the up, or the stroke direction is going to be zero. Okay, so this is what the this is how the logistic regression works. So although logistic regression has regression in its name. It is used for the classification algorithm. Okay? It is not a regression algorithm. It is a classification algorithm. So this is how we are going to use logistic regression to classify or to predict the direction any questions, anyone

Speaker 1  1:33:49  
Okay, what does logistic regression classify? It can classify whatever we give it, okay, so over here the if we go through this example, the example says that dependent variable is stroke direction zero or one, so it classifies whether the based on the RSI, whether the stock is going to be up or down. Okay, so for this particular example, the dependent variable is stroke direction one or zero. So over here we have RSI is independent variable, and based on the independent variable, it is going to classify what the dependent variable is. Is this equation always remain the same, or it changes? So, okay, this is very generalized equation, right? So RSA is our feature. Now, whatever features that we have, that features will simply go ahead changes, right? So this equation will remain the same, but the linear equation will can increase or decrease, right? So for the example, for example, for this particular data set that we have over here, right? It will be like, again, whatever number of features that we that we have. So we will be having those many independent variables, right? So, yeah, so again, the equation will remain the same. It will just increase or decrease the number of variables in it. Okay, great. Can logistic regression be used to classify more than two classes? Yes, absolutely so something known as multimodal multinomial logistic regression, which is used for but again, the primary logistic regression that we are discussing is used for binary classification, for which it is very apt, okay, but there exist extensions of these logistical which goes is the which goes by the name soft mix that uses similar concepts, but in An extended way to help multi class classification problems. Okay? Okay, yep, great, okay, can we do a quick review before you wrap up this topic? Yeah, sure so. What we said is, I believe you are just referring to these logistic regression part. So again, we started our discussion of logistic regression by revisiting the linear regression. In linear regression, we know that we have dependent variable on y axis and independent variable on x axis. We when we and both of these variables are numeric in nature, okay. In linear regression. What we do is we try to come up with a model, which is usually the line of best fit that is given to us by the linear equation alpha times RSF plus beta. Now this alpha times RSI is RSA is nothing but this independent variable over here on the x axis, okay, if we have multiple features, then it would be alpha times Rs, alpha times feature one plus alpha plus alpha two, feature two plus alpha three, feature three and whatnot. It will be multi regression, like multiple variable regression, okay. The key thing to observe here is, in this particular slide, is that the model, or the line that we came up with represents the true nature of the data. It represents the data quite well, okay. So if the data is, is, is, is, the RSI is increasing, the asset value is increasing, and that is what the model also shows us, right? So the model has the positive slope over here, and it is representing the data quite well. But what if we change the dependent variable from a numeric value, from a numeric variable to a binary variable? Okay, when we do that, we keep the independent variable the same the RSI, but by, just by changing the target variable, okay, just by changing the target variable, we see that the shape of the scatter plot changed totally okay. And over here, if we try to perform the same activity that is to feed the model, right, we see that no matter what kind of model do we fit, we will always see very high error over here, okay, because none of these lines, or none of these models are actually able to represent the true nature of the data, the true shape of the data, okay, so what we do is like, we still go ahead and we still build the line of best fit over here, okay, and then we pass this line of best fit to

Speaker 1  1:38:40  
something known as the sigmoid function, or the logit function, which is given as one upon one plus e raised to negative Z. Right. When we do this, the shape of the model changes to unknown linear and what we see over here, it now fits the data quite well. It now represents the true shape of the data, okay, and that is what we want, because if the model is able to represent data well, it will be able to predict quite well, right? So this is what we have over here. However, the output of the logit function is going to be probabilities, okay, which lies between zero and 100. So what we do is we simply say that whenever the probability of the logic function is greater than 50% then we say that it is going to be whatever the upper level is okay. And whenever the probability is less than 50% we say that it is going to be the whatever the lower label is okay. Now this label could be anything. It could be 01, it could be one, negative, one. Anything, right? So over here, this is binary classification, wherein we want to use the logistic regression to classify either of the two classes, either zero or one, and that is what we do over here. I hope that answers your question, or that wraps up this discussion. Quite well, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:40:04  
So, yeah, this is really good question that could we use?

Speaker 1  1:40:12  
Could this probability of 50% be random value, or it could be anything, by default nature, it is 50% okay, the threshold is 50% but we are free to change it. We have to change it 7090, and most of the time when we build logistic regression models, 50% seldom works. Okay? So we need to go ahead and we need to increase the threshold to something that works for a particular our our industry, right? Great. Okay, so this is what logistic regression is. If you have any questions, please feel free to put it in the chat box. After the break, I will take all those questions and then we will start our model building activity in Python. Okay, great. So let me open the clock here. We will, let's take the five minute break. We will be back by 551 on my screen, and then we will start building the model. Okay, great. I'll see you after 10 minutes. You.

Speaker 1  1:51:03  
Okay, so let's resume our discussion. Before we do that, can you guys please confirm if I'm audible, a

Speaker 1  1:51:18  
quick nudge on the chat would do the work. Yep, thank you. Manjunath, okay, so let's pick up from where we have left. We discussed the what machine learning is, the kind of task that machine learning inverse. We also briefly discussed about classification, clustering, how those data sets would look like, and we also touched upon few of the applications that where machine learning could be utilized. Okay, before going on to the break, we also discussed our very first algorithm, the logistic regression algorithm that we could use for the classification part. Now we are going to jump to the Python code. Now we are going to jump onto the Python code to go ahead and discuss how it how we can implement it. Anusha says that, can you give quick recap of regression? Anusha, if time permits, I'll surely give in the recap of the regression. Okay, great. So here is the notebook you guys would already have with you if you guys want run code along with me, you can simply open the notebook and ensure you have all the libraries installed on your machine so that you can run this course. Okay, so what is the goal of this model? Activity of this model? The goal of this model is to predict whether the next day is an update or not. See this distinction, okay? So we say that we want to predict whether the stock is going to go up the next day or not. Okay? So we are not saying up or down. We are seeing up or not. So this is how we need to this is what we will use as a guide to build our target variable. Okay, great. So let's begin our activity. First, we are going to import all the necessary libraries. Now these are the set of libraries that you guys have already been working with, like pandas, NumPy, matplotlib and whatnot. So pandas are used for data analysis, data analytical purpose. NumPy is you. NumPy is used for vectorization dead time, and that time is used to handle dead time objects. Matplotlib and seaborn are used for visualization purpose and whatnot. So I'm just going to import all those standard libraries over here, right, read the data set. Now, the data set that I have over here is the tester data set, which I have exported to a CSV, and then I'm going to read the CSV, then I'm going to make the copy of it so that we don't make any inadvertent changes to the original data set. And the data set starts from somewhere 2014 Okay, and in total, it has 1500 plus observations. So this is a historical data that we have. The historical data over here contains Open, High, Low, Close volume data. Okay. Now, as we learnt in the previous discussions, whenever we build classification model, and yes, so we are working with the logistic regression, which is a classification algorithm. And hence this is going to be a classification model. Okay? So whenever we build classification model, we learned that we need two things, right? So we know over here, we learned that we need to input data. When we say data, we are referring to the features, and those features needs to have targets or the labels, okay? So we need to build both data and labels both. So first we are going to build the target. Now to build the target, we need to keep in mind what our end goal is.

Speaker 1  1:55:38  
Over here, our end goal is to so when we say it is an update, we represent it with one, and we say, whenever we say it is not the update, we represent it with zero. Okay. Now, when we say up, how do we quantify it? So if the stock goes up, it simply means that the closing price of the next day is going to be above the closing price of the today. Okay, if that is the case, then it is an update is the stock did not go up, okay? So over here, I am going to generate target variables. Now I could build target variables just by looking at the close price, or I could also simply look at the returns, and if the returns are positive, the I can say, I could say that it was an update. Okay, so over here, what I'm going to am going to compute the log returns. Now, again, you guys know it how to build, how to compute log returns. I am using np dot log to generate day to day log returns, and this is what they are. Okay, I am going to use this np dot where condition, Okay, over here, np dot where condition takes this condition, which says that if the next day's return, okay. Over here, see, I'm doing shift minus one. Okay, this is important when we when we do Shift minus one, the data goes up. Okay? The up. Okay, the the access moves upper side, so minus one means next day, simply positive ones means previous day. So, so I am saying that if next is written is greater than zero, if next day's return is greater than zero, then the target variable should be one, is it should be zero, which simply means that if the Close to close return for the next day is positive, the target variable should be one is it should be zero. Okay, simple. Now let me, let me count the number of instances of update and the days when the stock did not go up, for whatever data set that we have, and we see that over here for 761, days the Tesla stock went up, okay, and for the rest of the days, it did not go up. So if I now go ahead and if I check the data, this is how the data looks like, right? So see here, take this particular row for instance, okay, it has got target of one. Why? Because the next day's return is positive. Okay, this particular row has got the target of one because the next day's return is positive. Okay, just, just give me two seconds.

Speaker 1  1:59:08  
Sorry, I was sneezing. Okay, back. So let me repeat this particular row has a target of one. Why? Because the next day's return is positive, right? Likewise, this particular day, the second January, 2014 has a target of zero because the stroke did not go up the next day. Okay, so we are using returns shift minus one. When we say shift minus one, it means we are looking in the future. Okay? So we want to take from the future right now. See, this is what we are building, the data set at this point in time, right once we build the data set, we will come we will discuss how we are going to build the model. Is right? I see there are already, like, few queries. Let me check, no, it's not a look ahead bias, I tell you why. It's not a look ahead bias, see, we want to build a data, okay, which from which the machine can learn. Okay, from which the machine can learn. Now, if we don't do this, how the machine is going to know for what values of the features, how did the stock reacted? Okay, if we don't do this, how did, how will the stock, how will the machine know, how did the market or the stock react for given values of feature? So is it a look ahead? Bias? No, it's not. We will. We are still not at the training part. Training Part will come after this. We are still preparing the data set. Okay to build any model we require the data that we could feed to the machine. Okay? So currently, we are preparing the data set that we will use to feed the machine. So what we are doing over here, we are just preparing the data right and now, as we already learned when we build a model, we need to have features and the labels, because supervised learning models like classification requires label and the observations both, right? So if I give the analogy over here again, when we were teaching the kid, when we are training the kid, we we gave these observations to the kid, and we also gave the labels. We gave both features in the labels, both over here. We are. We are like at the very first step, where we just generated the target over here. Okay, we are just generating the target over here. So this is what we did.

Speaker 1  2:02:13  
This is what we just did. This is with what we built over here. Okay, now next part that comes is to build features.

Speaker 1  2:02:29  
Now, before we can build features, we need to really understand, what are those, what it could be, what are the what are the what are those properties that will really help machine learn the association between those features and the target, right? So what I'm saying is over here is like, if machine wants to predict these targets, right? What are those properties that could really help machine predict these targets, right? And that is where the idea of feature selection and feature extraction comes into picture. Okay, so feature selection is basically the idea where, based on whatever available data that we have, we select the data, we select those properties or those features that will help machine learn the association between the features and the target. Okay, so over here, what we have, what I'm going to do is like, I'm going to plot a scatter chart. Okay, of returns versus the volume, okay, of returns versus the volume, to explain like again, how we can think of creating features. Now, as analyst, whenever we start building models, we would be spending considerably good amount of time coming up with features. So features are the core of any model building activity that you do. If your features are right, if your features can explain the target value, if you if the features can explain the target value, your machine learning algorithm will do rest of the thing. Okay. So whenever you start building any models, sit and think clearly that what are the features that will help explain your target with you? Okay, so over here, what we see is that we have these features with us, okay. We have these features with us. On the x axis, we have returns. On the y axis, we have volume, okay. And what we see is like whenever the volume tends to increase, okay. Whenever the volume tends to increase, okay, the returns on the either side increases. See it is a non linear relationship over here that whenever the volume increases, the returns also increases. Now what we see is like all these values, right? All these values are quite abnormal. However, for most part, for most part, when the volumes are quite normal, the returns also stay in some normal zone. Okay, the returns also stay in some normal zone. So returns are clustered over here for some normal values of the volume. However, the moment, however, the moment the volume increases, those spikes right, the returns also increases, or it could be the other way, right? It could be the other way around. We could say that whenever there are abnormal returns seen in the market, volumes tends to spike. For the rest of the days. When the volumes are normal, the returns are also pretty much clustered together. So this kind of insights that which we get to see from the data that we analyze, we could think of building features, okay? So we over here, we see that, like the volume, could play important role to determine the direction of the stock, okay? And based on this kind of analysis, the next part that comes into picture is the feature extraction. Feature Extraction is a process where we would create new features based on the existing data that we have. Okay. Feature Extraction is the process where we create new features based on the existing features or the existing existing properties that we have. What are the features that we currently have? Open, High, Low, Close. These are the market observed features. These are the market observed properties that we already have, along with volume. Okay. Now if we could use these

Speaker 1  2:07:24  
existing features, okay? And if we can extract insights from the available features, we could go ahead and we could probably come up with new features that could explain the target variable quite well, okay? So to do this, we are going to create certain set of features. The first set of features is to capture the price volatility. Okay, the first set of feature that we are using over here is to capture the price volatility. So what we are doing over here is that we are looping through a range of parameters from five to 20, with the step value of five, okay, and we would be calculating the standard deviation on the close price. We could do on returns as well, as we saw over here, that the returns play important role. But again, I am choosing to go with the close price, which is both one and the same, okay, in a way. So over here, I am capturing the price volatility over different periods, over various periods. So the first part that I am capturing from the existing data, existing features, is the volatility of the price, okay, the second set of feature that I am creating over here is to capture the trend in the price, okay, again, over multiple periods. So I have feature range from 10 to 30 with a step size of five. And what I'm doing over here is I am capturing the trend in the prices on periods like 1015, 2025, and whatnot. Okay, so first I captured the vitality. Next I captured the trend. Okay. The third thing that I am capturing is the momentum in the price, okay, the third thing that I am capturing is the momentum in the price. And to capture momentum, I am using the percentage returns. Okay, I could have very well used log returns as well. But just to show that we could, we could build features the way we like it, I am going to use percentage change. Okay. So this is the, again, capturing, uh, capturing cumulative sum of returns over multiple periods, 369, and what not, okay. So this is what we are doing over here, to capture the momentum in the prices, right? And. Last two features that we have involves volume. So somewhere, like based on my analysis, I feel that volume place some part, some importance, to define the direction of the stock. So I am calculating a single, rolling mean of the volume, okay. And the last thing that I'm doing is simply capturing the intraday movement, which is the close minus open, like just the absolute terms, in absolute terms, absolute value of the moment. Okay? Now, these are just simple. These are just some of the features that I could think of. The real distinction between, like, which model works or which model works not comparatively better than the other lies in the future creation, if you're if you can come up with these features really well, right? It can make or break your model. So whenever you start building your model activity, do pay attention to the features that you create and ask yourself, Okay? And ask yourself, are these the features that you are selecting is going to help your machine predict the target value. So whenever you build model, ask yourself this question, that whatever features that you are creating will help your machine, will help your algorithm predict the outcome, predict the target variable or not, right? Great. So these are the features that we have created. Now let me go ahead and let me see the say features list. So these are the features to capture volatility. These are the features to capture the trend. These are the features to capture the momentum. Volume feature and the intraday moment feature. Okay, these are the features that we have for our data set. Now, if I go ahead and if I check like,

Speaker 1  2:12:14  
Are there any name values, are there any null values in my data set? So what I see is like, yes, while creating these features, while creating these features, which are the rolling features, all of all of them are rolling features, somehow I introduce the null values in my data, and none of the machine learning algorithms that we are going to work with works with the null values. So this is an issue that we need to cater. We need to remove all of these null values from data. Okay, so, and to do that, this is what we are going to use data dot drop Na, to remove all the null values. And finally, now we have our data set ready with us, and it looks like this. So we have this data set with us, and see over here, I'm not using any, any of the features that come with my data set. I'm just using the features that I have created on my own right. I'm using I'm using features that captures volatility, features that captures the trend features, that captures the momentum, intraday, moment and volume. I am not using any returns or volumes or those stuff. Could we use? Yes, we can use, can we use daytime features? Yes, we can use those daytime features. But I am not using over here, and this is the exact data set with which we started our discussion over here. Okay, so that is the same data set that we have with which we started our discussion, and these are the same set of features. So these are the features to capture volatility, then there are rest of the features to capture the momentum, sorry, the price trend, momentum, volume and the intraday movement, and then last, lastly, we have our labels. Okay, these are the labels that we have created using the returns. These are just for your explanation purpose, so please ignore this part. This is not used in the activity. Okay, let me go ahead and let me see if there are questions.

Speaker 1  2:14:41  
Okay, someone says, rather than manually creating features, can we automatically extract the features set, basis training data? So Vamsi, how will you now? You need to provide some input to the measure, some input to the data right now, oftentimes what happens is, oftentimes what happens is, if you. Go ahead and just use this kind of, these market observed data, and feed it to the machine. Right? The machine could come up with their own interpretation. The machine could come with, you know, machine could come up with their own interpretation and their own association with the target variable. But this is where we need to ask ourselves, what are we doing different than the others? Okay? So if there are 10 of us sitting with the same data set to create the similar kind of models, right? So we know that, like you, are also creating a model to predict the direction of the market. I am also using the same data set, same set of algorithms, to create a model that predicts the direction of the market. There is another guy who is also doing the same similar activity. Now, where will you infuse the point of differentiability? Okay, so often times among competitors, we all work with similar kind of data, right? So we all have market observe data available with us. We all know like, what are the various machine learning algorithms that are out, available out there, and all those stuff, right? So if we simply keep on using the same set of data and same set of algorithms, right, we all be having the same kind of stuff. So how do we create or how do we infuse the differentiability such that my model is better than the others, and that is where our natural intelligence comes into picture. Okay, that we know out of the existing data, as per our understanding of the market, we know that if we could create certain or if we could extract certain features, which would be different than the others, one to the peers, one, okay, my model is going to be certain percent better. Okay, so that is where the differentiability comes in. So if you know that, like, if we both are trading the same strategy, we know that, like, again, at some point in time, because of the alpha decay, the studies is going to stop working. But if I keep on defining, if I keep on adding new features or new something, something that could make my strategy much better than the peer, okay, the chances increases that I will outrun my peer. And those stuff happens at this feature extraction stage. Okay, we are aiding our natural intelligence. We are adding our natural capability, and we are making some kind of work easier for the machine to understand the data and so that the machine can come up with those association between the features and the target variable quite well, and our accuracy increases a bit. Okay? I hope that answers your question, why we need to do this stuff and not other thing, right? I hope that answers your question. Vamsi, what do you think, for ml based trading, shall we infuse all different types of features, or first create hypothesis, like whether, whether the contraction and then create features. I fall into the other category, which is like first, we need to first, we shall create our hypothesis and then create features. So there is a, there is a, there is this loosely used term in the machine learning field, which is known as, like, whenever you are building a model, you treat your model as a kitchen sink, okay? And just how we

Speaker 1  2:18:57  
just how we put everything in kitchen sink, you put whatever kind of features that could possibly exist in your model and let your model select those features. Okay, now, again, that is no again, that is another idea which I don't say like I'm I am not in favor of but I'm of the opinion that why should we overload our machine learning algorithms unnecessarily when we know that those, those unnecessary set of features are not going to contribute in a in any way? So I fall into another category, Mainak, which is like, first create some kind of hypothesis, okay, and then creates a set of features on it. So it, it gives you a set of, you know, it gives you a way to process, a way to a. Performs, perform stuff in an organized way. Okay, if you create your hypothesis and then create set of features, it will basically allow you to think in a systematic way and make your model much better, rather than just like openly putting everything together and like those stuff, yeah,

Speaker 1  2:20:30  
high signal, feature extract, a feature set, like volatility, contraction. How to do that is with EDA or some feature importance techniques. Feature importance techniques is something that we are going to cover in the second part the second lecture. But yeah, so usually what people try to do, especially the ones who are associated with the options and what not, they usually try to work with work relative features, right? And they try to compute all kinds of volatility features and provide it to the machine learning model and try to see, right? So EDA comes in the part like, what kind of hypothesis you build, right? So what we saw here is just like a glimpse of, like, what could be done. Okay, now, the kind of way, the way you start building your model, differs the way you build your hypothesis. The ADA differs a lot. We can we can go ahead and we can discuss this offline, like how it could be done for particular set. Okay.

Speaker 1  2:21:42  
Could you illustrate how this concept applies in a volatile Indian global market regime? I would love to see a recent example that involves more noise complexity than theoretical models. So when you say this concept, which particular concept is

Speaker 1  2:23:39  
yeah, it so appears that my internet code is connected and I am back. Can you guys please confirm if I'm audible again?

Speaker 1  2:23:52  
Yeah, I am extremely sorry for these mishap. Sorry. I'm so sorry guys. Okay, let's continue from where we left. Okay,

Speaker 1  2:24:14  
yep, sorry. So, okay, so someone had a question like, could you illustrate, how this concept applies in what Indian global markets regime I would love to see. So when you say this concept, which particular concept are you referring to? Okay, until the question is answered. Oh, MLT. So MLT. MLT is a, again, it's a very it's not a subject, it's it's not a concept, it's a subject, right? So what we are going to do, and what we are using is basically it is used regardless of the market regime, right? Yeah. So again, there is no particular case where the concept is being. Used for particular regime and the other regime. No that it doesn't work that way, right? So if we and it goes with any concept that we take, right? If we take options trading, certain part of the options trading would work for high volatility regime, other part would work with the low volatility regime. So following the similar lines again, machine learning would be used. Some models would be used for some particular kind of days, like waste, right? Hello, sorry, sorry to interrupt. I think the screen is not shared. Oh, is it? Yeah? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.

Speaker 1  2:25:46  
It. How about now? Yes, we can see the screen now, perfect. Thanks. Thanks. Raul, okay, so we were like on the same part from where we had left. Okay, so we coming back to the model building activity. We built the features in the target. Now we saw that there are certain null values there which we went ahead and we dropped them. And now this is the features. This is the feature set that we have over over here with us, right? So let us see the shape of the data. So when we begin, we had like 1500 plus observations. Now we have around, like a bit less than 1500 which is okay, okay. And in total, there are like these features that we have over here. So the next thing that we need to do is, when working with any any algorithms, okay. So when we say any algorithms, I am referring to any algorithms which are regression based, or any algorithms which are which involves regressing some data. Okay. In those cases, we need to go ahead and we need to convert our data. But before we do that, before we normalize our data, the very first thing that we need to do is we need to split this data set into trading and testing data sets. So please pay attention over here, guys.

Speaker 1  2:27:26  
So the data set that we currently have has, say, for example, 10 years of data. Okay, now this is the whole data that we have, that which with which we are working with. So what we do usually is we split the data set. So this is our original data set. Okay, we which, which with this original data set, we split the data set into two parts. Now, before we say we split into two parts, let me write this way. Okay, original data set. This is my original data set. Now, this original data set that I have, which, which, consider, which consists of data of around 10 years. I have two things in my data, okay. First are the features Okay, which are usually represented by capital X. So in mathematical in mathematical terms, the feature set is usually or the feature matrix is usually denoted by capital letter. And then we have target variable, which is a target vector. So the target vector is represented by a small letter. So we have features and the target vector in our data set, in our original data set. So this is currently what we have. We have features and we have target variable. Okay, what we are going to do now is we are going to split this origin, original data set into two data sets. Okay. We are going to split original data set into two data sets. The first part is knowing is going to known as the training data set, okay, and the second part is going to known as the test data set. What we are going to do is we are going to train a model on the training data set. Okay, so whatever training data that we would have, we would take the training data, we would feed the training data to the model, and then we would train the model, okay, the logistic regression model. Once we train the model, once we train the model, we will take the trained model, okay, we will take the trained model, and then we will give the test. Test data, they will we will give the test data to the trained model, and they will test the model. Okay? So it's like, basically, first we are training the model and then we're testing the model. Now when we train the model, we need to give features and target variables, both, right? Just how we trained the kid. We gave the observations, the fruits and the labels both to the kid, and the kid internally learned how those features are associated with the target, okay? And then we and the next time, when we ask the model as the kid, when we were testing the kid, we just gave the features, okay, and then we will ask the model to predict the target, okay, so over here, when we are testing, we just, we will just provide the features to the model, because the model is already trained. Now, the model already knows the association between the features in the target video, right? So the next time we are only going to give the features to the model, which is the trained model, and we are going to test it. When we are going to test it, the model will give us. Our model will predict the targets. Okay, the model will predict the targets. And once the model predicts the targets, we are going to compare those predictions with the actual target value. Okay, so this is how the process is going to be before that. Let's learn some conventions over here. Okay, let me just see, like, what conventions are used over here. So that Okay, so the features that will be part of the training data set, okay. Will will be known as the extreme, okay, so x is basically the features train means training data set, likewise, y underscore train, so y is the target variable of the training data set. Okay. And then we will, we will be having features of the test data set, and then we will be having the target variable of the test data set, okay. So in total, we would be having two data sets, the data sets name are trading and testing. Okay. So there will be two data sets, training and testing, and

Speaker 1  2:32:27  
we would be training our model on the X train, y train. Basically, when we train the model, we will give observations along with the labels along with the target vector, okay, and then when we are going to test the model, we are just going to give the features of the testing data set, right? So what happens is that when we test the model using the testing data set, the model will produce something known as predictions. Okay? Why breads? Or the white bread? These are the predictions, or these are the predictions with that will be made by the model, the trained model, okay, based on the testing data, based on the testing features. Okay. Once the predictions are being made, we are going to compare, we are going to compare the actual value, the actual, actual target value with the predictions. Okay? So we would be comparing these two, right? And when we do this, we like, when we compare like, how these predictions are in accordance with the actual value, we will get to know how model learned. Okay, like how well the model learned? Is this part clear, guys, everyone, or does have any does anyone have any questions?

Speaker 1  2:34:02  
I someone says, Could you illustrate how logistic regression applies to the region classification in the current world and market? I would be more than happy to discuss this offline. So again, for this, the target variables would be different. We would need to make a different hypothesis and whatnot. So someone questions, does why predictions come from? Why training? No, no, no, no, no, so why predictions are the one that will be the output of the that would be the output of the model when we test using X test. Okay, so let me put it this way. Let me, let me put it this way. Over here, this is important. You need to understand tech. Okay, to begin with, we have. Is the original data set. Okay. Next we split the data set into training and testing data set. Okay. This is what we do next. Once those are data set has been splitted, okay? We train the model. When we say model we are using referring to logistic regression.

Speaker 1  2:35:44  
With the training data, okay? And when I say training data, I'm referring to extreme and y trained once we train the model. So over here, the model gets trained. Okay, the model gets trained. Once the model is trained, we need to test the model, right, like, whether, like, how much did the model learn, or whether the model learned or not. So we need to test it. So now we are going to, we will test the model, test the trained model. Okay with testing

Speaker 1  2:36:33  
data set, okay and when? When I say testing data set, I just, I am going to use just X test. Why? Because, if I'm if I'm testing the model, okay, if I'm testing the model, why should I let Why should I tell models what are the true answers? What are the correct answers? I'm not going to tell my model what are the correct answers, right? So I'm not going to use white test. I'm just going to give X test. Okay, when I test my trained model with the testing data set, the model will produce the predictions. Okay, so for whatever observations that that are in the X test, for those observations, it will, it will produce the predictions named white bread, okay, once the predictions are made, okay, the final step is to compare y pred, which is the predictions made by the model, with the actual data, which is white test, okay. Is this part clear? Everyone? Are those steps clear what I'm like, what we are going to do? If not, please press one you

Speaker 1  2:38:08  
Okay, great. So if things are clear, we can we shall move forward, and we shall understand this pythonically So over here, I am going to use the methods to split my data set into training and testing data sets by using the SK learn dot model selection. So I we are going to use the Python library called Scikit run to perform all kind of ml activities. Okay, I am going to import train test split data Train, train test split method from this module. And then I'm going to assign x to sorry. I'm going to assign features to x. I'm going to assign target to y, okay. And then I'm going to use the train test split to split my data set. Okay. Over here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to provide my feature set, the feature matrix and the target vector, okay? And then I am going to say that, okay, use 25% of the data set. Use 25% of the original data set is the testing data set size, and then use rest of the data set for the training purpose. Okay, one could use whatever they would want to so again, like 20 to 30% is the convention, but again, we could use whatever. So we are using saying that, okay, use 25% of the original data set is the testing data set size and use the remaining for the training data set. Another important parameter that I am providing over here is the shuffle. Okay. I am saying that whenever you split the data set, whenever you split the data set, don't shuffle any of the observations in other way. In other words, I am saying that if my data. Set has contains data from 2014 2015 2016 and all the way up to 2024 for example. Okay, don't consider these 2015 2023 2022 for the testing data set, and the rest of the rest of them for the training data set. No, don't do that. Instead, use these many years for the training part, for the training data set, okay, and use the last 25% for the testing data set. Okay, so this is what I'm doing. I'm saying use initial years as the training data set and the remaining years for the testing data set. Why I'm doing so, because I'm dealing with a time series data. Okay, the data that we are dealing with over here is a time series data, and if we shuffle the observations, okay, then we are going to introduce look ahead buyers. So we cannot train a model on recent data and then test it on the past data. We cannot do that right? I cannot train my model on 2024, data and then I say that, okay, go and predict for 2014 that would be, that would be logically incorrect. But I can do, I can train my more than 2014 data, and I can, I can predict in 2024 data, right? So if we keep true here, we would be inducing the Look Ahead bias, or at the same time, we might not be able to respect the temporal nature of the data. Okay? As a result, we need to keep this shuffle equals to false, right? So let me go ahead. Let me split the data set into four power sections, X training. So my original data set had 1414, 86 observations. Now my training data set has 1100 plus data sets. And my testing data set has somewhere around 300 370 plus observations. Great, perfect. Now, if I go ahead, if I at this point in time, based on this particular workflow, we are ready to train our models. Okay, we are ready to train our model, but there is still one thing that we need to do, there is still one thing that we need to do, which is, if we go ahead, if we go ahead and if we compute the summary statistics of our training data, if we compute the summary statistics of our trading data, what we see over here is this check this part mean, okay, so these are our features. Okay, these are our different features. And what we see is like some of the features have really high mean value. So for example, volume moving average has value, has the mean value of

Speaker 1  2:43:09  
as the mean value in millions, right? Whereas the mean value of the momentum features are in zeros, okay. Whereas the moment, whereas the mean value of the volatility features are intense, and likewise, the more the mean value of the trend features are in hundreds. So what these indicates is that if we use data, if we use this training data, is it is the algorithm is going to make, is going to be biased towards the features which has got really high values, okay? So if we use these features, is they are, and feed it to the machine, the algorithm will understand that. Okay, you know what the analyst, the supervisor, provided us with the data where the feature, the features with the high values are important and the features with the lower values are not so important. So if we use this kind of data, the algorithm is likely to make or is likely to be biased towards the features with very high values, okay? And it might not accurately provide equal importance to all the features, right? So, which is not true, right? We know that these momentum features are also are also equally important. That is why we have included them in the data. But if we, if we, if we provide this data as it is, the algorithm is going to lean towards the variables with with very high values, right? Because the algorithm will use that the higher the value, the important the variable is, or the important the. Feature is, which is not true. So in order to avoid this biasness, you know, in order to avoid these kind of mishap, what we need to do is we need to scale this data. Okay, we need to scale this data. And when I say scale this data, I'm referring like we need to bring all the features on the similar scale, so that the algorithm does not provide undue importance to any of the single feature or any of the single set of features. In Python, we do it with a class known as the standard scalar. Okay. It comes from the scale under pre processing module, which uses the Z scale or the z score. Okay, the z score is the mechanism with which we can scale the data. So let me show you how it happens in reality. So here's the visualization. So pay attention to these two data sets. Okay, so this is my original data set, and this is a distribution of the data, and we see that this particular value is negative 9.9 Okay, over here, this is the value of 100 plus three, right, and the standard deviation in the mean of this particular data set is 48 and 15 respectively. So now this is the distribution. Again, you could think or you could visualize this distribution as a distribution of one of the variables, one of the features right now, what we do is we compute the z score. Okay, the z score is basically given to given to us, s value, the the feature value, minus the mean divided by the standard deviation, okay, okay, so this is the it would give us the z score. So we compute the Z score of this particular feature, and that is represented on the right side of this screen over here, right that is like after scaling the value of negative 9.9 Okay, using this mean and standard deviation becomes negative 3.7 Okay, likewise, the value of 100 100.3 100.3 after converting it into the z score, using this mean and standard deviation gets converted to 3.3 okay. Now why do we want to do this? When we scale this data, when we scale this data, the beautiful thing that happens is the mean will become zero and the standard deviation will become one. Okay, the mean will become zero and the standard deviation will become one. So what happens now is,

Speaker 1  2:47:51  
when we give all these features to the machine learning algorithm, all these features will help the mean of zero and the standard deviation of one, which means that their values scale in a given range, okay? And as a result, the algorithm will not be biased towards a particular feature or towards a particular set of features, right? Another thing to observe over here is after scaling the data, after scaling the data, the distribution of the feature does not change, okay, after scaling the data, the distribution of the data does not change. First and the second is the frequency distribution also does not change. Usually people believe that, like, especially the beginners, one that after changing, or after scaling the data, the distribution and the the distribution of the the distribution will change. But no, that's not true, the distribution does not change. Okay. So to do this kind of scaling, we use standard scale available in the Scalar library. Okay, what we do is like, first we go ahead and be we create the object of the class standard scalar, and then we go ahead and we compute the mean and the standard deviation of the training data. Okay, first we compute the mean and the standard deviation of the training data, and then we come then we transform. So when we say, fit, okay, fit is basically computing the main and the standard deviation of all the features in the training data, and then it is transforming, or it is scaling the data, and we store it in the extreme scale, right? Now, see if we go back to our discussion over here, we are going to use this training data for training the model. Okay, and we are going to use this rest of the data to test my model. Now, when I want to skip. Scale the data. When I want to scale this data, X test to X test scaled right? I cannot compute the standard deviation and mean of the testing data. If I do that, I will be incorporating the Look Ahead, buyers, okay. I cannot compute the mean, the standard deviation of the testing data. And hence what I need to do is I need to use the main in the standard deviation of the training data to scale the testing data. Please. Please pay attention over here, guys, this is very important, and people often make mistake over here when scaling the data. I cannot use the main and the standard deviation of the testing data. Okay? I need to use the standard deviation and the mean of the training data to scale the testing data. Right? If I use the mean and the standard deviation of the testing data to scale the testing data, I would be introducing the Look Ahead, buyers. Why? Because I am using testing data just for the testing purpose. And if I use any data, any any, any computer data from the testing data set to build my model, it will be induction of the Look Ahead bias. Okay, so hence is a result over here. See when I'm training my when I'm scaling my training data, I'm using the method fit, transform. Okay, so what does this fit do? Fit computes the mean and the standard deviation, and then it will use this those mean in the standard deviation to scale the data. Now, when I'm scaling my test data, when I'm scaling my test data, I'm simply using the transform method. I am not using the Fit method over here, fit transform. I am using simply transform method, which will simply scale the data, and while scaling it, will use the mean and the standard deviation from the training data. Okay, so this is important. This is, this is, this is something that needs to be kept in mind while building the model. Okay, so these are some nitty gritties that people often miss out and as a result, when they build model, they say, okay, you know, like, my model is really good accuracy, or the my model can predict with really high accuracies. But when,

Speaker 1  2:52:24  
when we dig deeper, okay, we often find it like they have made some silly mistakes. So this is what it is now, if I go ahead and if I now check the statistic summary of my scale data. So this is my scale data frame. Okay, we see that the mean and the standard deviation are zero for all the features. Now this is what I can go ahead and use it to train my model, right? So this is what we need to keep in mind while building the models. Okay, great. Now that we have a data prepared with us, now that we have splitted the data, okay? We have now scaled the data. We can now go ahead and we can train the model. And once we train the model, we can go ahead and we can test the model. Okay, so going forward, we are importing the logistic regression from the scale on dot linear model. This is how we import the model. Now see over here, we are simply defining the model. Okay, we are creating the object of the class logistic regression, and within it we need to provide this particular variable random state. Now this random state could be anything, right? So it is, it is, it is a seed, seed variable, and just how you guys used to seed the numpy library to ensure reproducibility, we are sitting over here with any random number to ensure that we all get the same result after and after when we use this this model multiple times, okay, so each machine learning algorithm, when used, it initializes certain variables internally, okay, so to ensure that those variables are initialized to some specific numbers, we use this random state. Now it could be anything, I just used 100, but it could be literally any number of your choice, right? But keep that number same every time, so that you ensure the reproducibility. So I'm just use creating the model, logistic regression. And over here I am training the model. See, to train the model, there is simple, a single function that we need to call, which is model dot fit. And now, when we train the model, okay, when we train the model, we. We need to use x train and x, x train and y train, right? Remember, because we are training the model using training data. So this is what we are doing over here. We are training the model, and this is it. The model got trained. Okay? This is what we got over here, the model got trained. And now, once we have trained the model, we can go ahead and we can start predicting it. Now see over here I mentioned that once the model got trained, we can go ahead and we can predict, we can test on the testing data set, but there is nothing stopping us to predict on the same data that on the on the on which the model has been trained, right? So I am predicting on training data itself, okay, so it's just like asking the kid on the same data set of fruits on which he was exposed to, okay, so I am simply going ahead and I am simply predicting on the data on which the model has been trained. Now, ideally in this scenario, if the model has really, really learned something, okay, or if the model has really understood the structure or the relationship between the features and the target, then the model should perform extremely well. Okay, the model should perform extremely well. Let's see. How does the model perform? Okay? So I predicted, or I tested the model using the same data on which it was trained, and this is how the predictions look like. Okay, so it's an IT is an area of one and zeros, okay? And if I check, if I compare the predictions made on the training data with the with the actual data right, and I can see this is the accuracy. So 56% of the time my model predicted correctly on the training data, okay, 56% of the times my model predicted correctly on the training data. Now let me go ahead and let me predict on the test data, which is like this third part,

Speaker 1  2:57:11  
which is this third step over here. So I am here going by predicting on the test data. Now this is the data that my model has never seen before. Okay, so this will be the true test of the model that the model has never seen this data ever before, and the model will encounter it for the first time. So let me go ahead predict it, and let me print the predictions. And this is, these are the predictions being made by the model, which are like zeros, ones and zeros, ones and zeros, which is what we want. Okay, so this is what we have over here. Next we have this model would predict proba, which will tell us the probabilities of each of these predictions, okay, which will give us the probabilities of each of these predictions. So let me go ahead and let me check the probabilities. So see what we see over here is for this very first observation, for this first observation, and the probabilities are this. There was 37% probability for class zero. There was zero point 62% probabilities of sorry, there was 62% probabilities for the class one and 37% probability for the class zero. Okay, hence, the probability for class one was greater than 50% is was it was predicted as class one or the stop going up. Likewise, over here, the probability of the class zero was 46% the probability of the class one is 53% and as a result, it is predicted as class one. Okay. Now if we see over here for this particular observation, right, the probability for class zero is 56% right, and the probability of class one is 43% and hence, as a result, it is predicted is zero, right? So this is how we can see the probabilities for the each individual observations, correct? Great. Now the last part, which is like, how do we check the, how do we check the predictions versus the actual results? So this, this is how, what we do the, these are the predictions, X test, skilled and white test. So why test is basically, is we know, is the so, why test is basically the actual data and white bread is basically the predictions right, and what we see is like the accuracy on the testing data is 53% compared to 56% on the training data. So all you know what we see is like the model has learned something and it is able to. Predict about the random probability of 50% right? Any questions? Anyone? Yes, very, very valid question. How do we validate the model output? So the very first step to validate the model output is to check the accuracy right. Now, accuracy is not the only is not the only metric. It's just the one of the metrics. So in the next lecture, we will begin our class by this particular step that is evaluating the model. Okay, so Carlos ask for the future extraction. Would it not have been better to use price of the asset or the moving average, just moving average of the skilled or No, not really right, because our model was trained on the scale data. So whenever we use data for prediction, we need, we need to use the scale data Carlos, we cannot use the actual price data. Why is 53% good, especially when it it is predicting on the data already trained on? No, 53% is not the is not on the data it was trained on. 53% is on the unseen data. Right is the test data. It is not the data on which it was trained. Carlos ask price or the moving average scale. So again, if you see, if you see, we are predicting on this scale data, scale test data, right now scale test data. Test scale data contains the same features, right? Is the training data. So they are the scale price in the moving Ridge, right? So they are the they are the one that the same. So, Amit, Amit. Data, ask. So is 53% is why predict match with why test? Yeah, that's true. That's true.

Speaker 1  3:02:09  
53% is not good accuracy. It is very is it? It is very close to coin tossed. So this is something debatable, which on which I'm going to spend like almost 4045, minutes in the next class. Vira. So again, like whether what is good, what is bad, and all those stuff, right?

Speaker 1  3:02:34  
Yeah, I'm just going through other questions. Could you please explain the utility of the random state, yeah. So random state is basically just understand it is. It is something that we need to initialize to some number, okay, so mathematically, when we initialize the class, it initializes multiple variables under the hood, okay, now those variables usually gets initialized randomly. Now, when we don't provide this random state, those numbers are going to be initialized, those internal variables are going to be initialized randomly, which we don't want, okay, so what we want is, each time when we build this model, or when we call this model, those initial internal variables to be initialized to certain specific numbers right now, one way to ensure the reproducibility is by initializing the random state. Now, you could provide your favorite number, you could provide your date of birth, whatever. Just provide some number, and it will ensure that it is going to be initialized with the same number. Okay. So will we scale all the input parameters using standard scaler? Yes, that's true. Anusha, we are that is what we are going to do it. Anusha says in the primals we have split data by different rounds. In some cases, we have considered the trend data from past in the future, in the tested data in between. By doing this, we are testing our models, yeah. So again, so again it what you are saying is something known as the rolling splits, or something also known as the cape, like pass, okay, so, like we do it by various validations, so that is used, usually with data sets that are not time series in nature. Okay, we could also use those that approach in time series data, but in that case, the kind of data set that we need to build would differ a lot. Okay, I can take these and explain it, explain it in detail, offline, if interested.

Speaker 1  3:04:56  
Okay, great, so that I'm just going through this part. Okay, last question, which is, like we have model accuracy on both traits testing at the training data set right train data set accuracy is between white bread and white test. So again, let me, let me, let me put it let me, let me make it clear. Over here, these y predictions, okay, they come from Step three, okay, and

Speaker 1  3:05:37  
accuracy on training data set over here, why bread comes from step two. A, okay, so base comes from step two. A, C, so, what we are doing is, this is x train, y train, okay, now this y prediction comes from the step two way over here, okay, and we compare this and compare it with y train, Okay, over here we compare this white bread with white test. I hope now this is clear.

Speaker 1  3:06:34  
Yeah, so, as Jae mentioned rightly, like one can practice this code by going through what we have shared here and going through this steps one by one, unless you practice this code again, it is very unlikely that you would be able to replicate it. So coding, as I saw again, we never encourage memorizing the code. That's true. Thanks. Jie, okay, great. So this is what I had for you in the store today. So we started with the basics of machine learning. We during the process, we we encountered and we learned multiple terminologies used in the machine learning. We then went on to discuss very, the very first algorithm of the day, that is the logistic regression. Then in the second half of the class, we went on to build the model from real data. We built the targets, we built the features. Then we learned about how how do we split data, then we learnt about, how do we scale data? And lastly, we ended our data. We ended our activity by training the model and then testing the model on both training data and testing data. And we see that there is this is how we can visualize the probabilities, and this is how we can make the predictions in the next class, we will start our discussion by with the evolution of the models, and then we will go, go ahead and like we discuss other other kinds of algorithms as well. Alright, this is what all I had for you in the store today. I thank you all for attending, attending this class. I'll see you sometime next week. Until then, take care. Bye, bye.

