Speaker 1  0:25  
Good evening, folks. I hope everyone is doing good. We had met a couple of weeks back to do the first installment of this two part series. It's called advanced ads for quant trading, where we are covering time series modeling for trading. Now, before I go ahead and get to the business end of things, I want to make sure you guys can both hear me as well as see my screen. So I'm looking at the questions panel, please type and let me know whether you can see my screen as well as you can hear me loud and clear. Great. Raghav has confirmed. Zubin has confirmed. So I'm going to extrapolate that the remaining folks, good folks, on this call, also can hear as well as see my screen. Okay, okay. Agrim also has confirmed. Thank you. All right, now I'm going to close the questions panel, and I'm going to get started with the order of business for today. So we had met almost exactly two weeks back last to last Saturday on 13th of June, where we covered the first part. Now we are going to advance our learnings further, and we will conclude our sessions on time series modeling today. All right, like I mentioned the last time, we are covering in about six hours, five to six hours, something that is covered over about four months in a standard graduate level course in Quantitative Finance, Financial Engineering, masters in econ, many such courses which are dealing with economics of finance at a master's level, would do a time series modeling course over an entire semester. So on average, you can say it would have, I'm guessing, about 12 to 14 lectures of roughly three hours each, right? So that's, let's just say it's about 40 hours of work with like, lots of time for people to, you know, work on assignments, etc. Now, obviously this is not being done in a graduate level manner. However, what we have done is we have compromised on getting too much into details, but we have spent, I think, a decent amount of time on looking at how we can implement these interesting ideas in the market space, right in terms of using it on financial market data. So that is a little bit of a preamble with regard to the topic. It's kind of a repeat for those of you who had attended the previous class, who had who had gone over the recording, right? So in terms of what we are going to cover today, we will look a little bit at parameter selection and, in fact, a way by which we can even automate the selection of these parameters. What parameters am I talking about? In case you guys are wondering and have sort of forgotten what we spoke about, we are referring to the parameters of the ARIMA family of models. What is Arima? Please don't ask that question. I'm not going to be too happy to hear it, at least the name, even if you don't recollect the full form, I would hope that you remember what Arima is. So it is auto regressive, integrated, moving average. So it has three parameters associated with it, one for the AR part, one for the I part, and one for the MA part, right? So last time we had just in a brute force manner, selected it to be 212, when we were working with PayPal data. Today, we'll also look at any automated pay by which those parameters can be selected. Those numbers to one and two. We are then going to add transaction costs to our strategy evaluation, because this is like a very, very important part of anything we do in the markets, right there are going to be costs associated with whatever you trade. And once you load that in on any profitable strategy, you will see that a big chunk of your profits start evaporating. So it's very important for us to see how our strategy performs. Once you start loading these costs to We are then going to move to a very important concept, which is to do with, how do we work with vol in financial data by wall, I mean volatility, right, not volume. Uh, to me, volatility is an even more important variable than returns or prices, because we have a better shot at predicting volatility than we have at predicting returns or even prices, for that matter, right? So we will, however, understanding volatility is slightly trickier, which is why most treatments of I would say finance start off with prices and returns, which are far more relatable, because these are observable features of any asset, whereas wall is not directly observable, right? In fact, even how do we define vol is? So there is a, I would say, a commonly accepted definition, but by no means the only one. So there are multiple ways that people define wall volatility across firms and across, I would say, asset management teams, right? So we'll spend some time talking about volatility in financial market data. We'll talk about how volatility tends to cluster. So high wall bunches up together for a while, then you have low wall, which bunches up together for a while, and so on which. That sets us up quite nicely to look at forecasting of volatility, for which you have two broad family of models. One is called the arch, A, R, C, H, so time series modeling, by the way, is filled with these kind of acronyms. Okay, so just get used to the fact that when you start working with this topic, you will keep on coming across different acronyms which represent typically models. Okay, so we look at ours. Then you look at guards, which is a extension of the arch approach. We'll then look at how we can combine what we have learned with regard to Arima and what we will be learning today with regard to arch, GARCH and GARCH, and if we can combine them to improve the quality of our forecast and predictions, right? And finally, we'll round it all off with talking about what are the things you need to consider when you want to start implementing these ideas in the markets? So yeah, that's the plan of action for the next three hours. All right, to do a quick recap of what we did the last time, we started off working with SNP 500 ETF data, right? So this is like the most liquid financial instrument traded in the in the in the world. It is like a proxy for the SNP 500 so we looked at spy daily data. We also then worked a little bit with PayPal weekly price data for different models. And while we were working with those things, we our first motivation to create a model was the auto regressive model with auto one that is AR one. We use that to forecast returns. We looked at some plots. We looked at some strategy built using AR one to see how it performs with regard to a passive investment strategy, like a buy and hold. We extrapolated from there, and we went on to build prima 212, in the process of doing all this, we spent some time on some very important concepts that are integral to understanding time series modeling. One of them is stationarity. So again, quick recap, stationarity is, I would say, like a technical word for stability. So Colloquially speaking, stationarity is equal to stability or predictability, right? Then we looked at ACF and pacf, which are ways to observe what the correlation is of any time series with past versions of itself. So you have two ways by which correlation is computed. One is called ACF, and the other is called pacf, and we use that in order to find the starting points of, say, ARIMA models. We generated trading signals based on price forecasts, and then we started doing all this comparison stuff, right, comparing strategies, momentum and all that stuff. Now what we haven't done yet, which we are going to do today is we did not use automated model selection, because we picked 212, manually. We did not do anything to do with volatility or risk. So we just assumed that risk or volatility is constant. I mean, we didn't explicitly say so, but the approach implicitly

Speaker 1  9:41  
tells us that uncertainty is just markets are equally uncertain all the time, and we will soon see today, spoiler alert, that that's not quite true. There are times when markets are more uncertain and there are times when it's less uncertain, all right. And since we did not model for uncertainty. We also never bothered to adjust our position size, right? So when we got a signal to go long, we just went all in. When we got a signal to go to stay out, we stayed fully out, right? So we never changed the size of our investment based on how wall looks at any point in time, right? So those are the all the things which we are going to examine a little more closely today. Okay, so I'm going to again take a glance at the questions panel before I get going.

Speaker 1  10:37  
So Shreya says, Could you share this notebook on LMS? Shreyas, I believe this notebook should already be there on your LMS. In case it isn't, I'll definitely share it with you guys post my lecture. So shares also asked, do you cover part? No, I do not cover it. It's also not covered in the EPAC course, because essentially, once you start extending guards, right, you have, like a complete alphabet soup of so many different variants of it, like E guards and gjr guards and whatnot, right? Akanks asks. Can you remind me what was bdq in Arima in good time? Akash? Because when we start doing it, I am going to repeat some of the things that we spoke about, all right, so I'm going to contextualize your question once we start playing with the real data, okay,

Speaker 1  11:35  
okay, before I go ahead again, Max has an interesting question. Max says, When I remove the ignore warnings line from ASQ one notebook, I see many warnings about non convergence and MA issues. Why do these? Why do these get hidden? So the thing about any kind of, I would say, estimation of parameters, which is, see basically all these models. What they're trying to do is they are trying to estimate certain unknowns in some model that we are formulating. Right? The thing is, when you try to find the solutions to them, they are not closed form solutions. So closed form solutions are the typical types that we encounter in, I would say, like high school algebra, or even beyond, slightly beyond that, even at undergraduate level, when we are trying to solve for unknowns, they have very clean solutions. But what happens when you're dealing with the kind of data that we deal with, right is that the solutions that we try to converge to are always approximate solutions. Okay? So we arrive at them using typically multiple styles of numerical methods, which are like interpolation methods and stuff. So without getting into the hairier aspects of the math that helps us arrive at those solutions, what happens is that when you when you get warning saying convergence is not happening or some such, it is essentially saying that the solutions that are getting computed are not very precise. Is that a problem? I would say for the most part, no. And as I've said, and I'm sure other faculty also may have mentioned in the past, right, is that eventually, when we compute all these unknowns, and then eventually, the point of calculating those parameters is to make certain forecasts for the future, right? And if the forecast are helping you formulate strategies that make money, even if the solutions are only approximately correct, you can live with them, right? Because here we are not in the business of real uh, writing some sort of thesis here. Ultimately, we want to get to the point where the rubber meets the road right. We want to see if whatever values we compute, is it able to help us generate profitable strategies, right? That's the objective. So if we are if that objective is getting met, then we needn't worry about the fact that the solutions are not very well converged. Okay, so I've kind of given a somewhat trivial answer to a slightly serious concern. And when I say serious, I don't mean serious from a profitability point of view. I mean from a mathematical point of view. So if somebody is really interested in the math behind it, it is a serious question that should be treated with more seriousness than I have just done alright. But since we are in a class which is really our, you know, our unified objective in this class is trying to build, develop, test and assess profitable strategies, this becomes a slightly less important question. Okay? So I trust that's given you a reasonable answer. Max, so let's, let's move ahead. Okay, so we vira Raja, stationary is a must, but normal distribution is not Am I getting it correct? Yes, you're somewhat right. Stationarity is so again, when we use Arima, even stationarity becomes kind of optional, because the I part takes care of even the stationarity, right? The reality is that we are most financial. Financial theory assumes normal distributions, but what we find is it is not. So we end up using distributions like the T student t distribution at different degrees of freedom and so on. All right. Again, these are all the kind of details that we will get into when we actually start doing the models. Okay, so for now, again, this is like a short answer to your question. Yasha, when we talk about wall forecasting, are we computing using IVR realized vol? We are using realize vol here. Yash, so again, I'll talk about it when we get there. Okay, let's, let's go sequentially, so that we don't get too overwhelmed by looking at all the stuff that we are learning. Okay, again, to repeat. So let's understand one thing, guys, the topic that we are covering today. And you know, many of the topics that covered, that get covered the second half of the program, which lasts for about six months are intermediate to advanced level stuff, so be prepared for the fact that you are going to be able to absorb some of it, not all of it. Okay, that is almost by design, because we really want to push the the edges of what you guys know and learn, right? So whenever, if things are getting uncomfortable, you should feel slightly satisfied about it, because ultimately, all this, the learning of new things, happens. When that happens, it does cause discomfort. Okay, so I'm sure you'll get a decent amount of that even today. Okay, all right, so let's go ahead and start with today's first thing that I want to do. So we'll work with PayPal. And last time when we completed it, I, by the way, I just, if any of you have the old notebook, I've changed the percentages here because I had changed the, I think, the dates in my previous notebook. That's why the difference, I think, in the previous one, I had mentioned 60% versus something else. But since I changed the dates, those numbers changed a little bit. So to show you what we had done, last time we had seen that the ARIMA 212, had given us 29% whereas the buy and hold had given us 19% right? So that's what I've written here. So when we used ACF, PSF to select Arima two and two, we applied it to and we got 29 versus 90. Now, one of you had asked, what is p, d and q again to remind you when we talk about Arima, Arima consists of three parts. Now, since we had already made a second, I

Unknown Speaker  18:25  
I'm trying to open a spreadsheet. Give me a second, guys. Okay,

Speaker 1  18:42  
so this is the same spreadsheet as the last time. So to remind you what Arima is, right, Arima consists of three parts, right, ar, which is the auto regressive part, then you have i, which is the integrated part, and Ma, which is the moving average part, right? So, auto regressive. The parameter used is p, which indicates the order of AR. I Sorry, the order parameter, you used here is D, which indicates the order of integration, right? This, I think I had also mentioned that the integration that I refer to here is has nothing to do with calculus, okay, the word integration that we encounter in calculus, right? And this indicates the the order of Ma, right? So when I say order, it means order here means how many past terms will be. We include in the model, right same here order here means how many past so in this case, when we say past terms, we are referring to past error terms, and here means order. Here means past so.

Speaker 1  20:25  
I hesitate to use the word price because it may then would mean I'm specifying this to do with price. Okay, let me just say how many past let's just say price terms. So this is Arima applied on daily prices. Okay, suppose we are talking about Arima applied on daily prices. Order here means how many past price terms you include in the model, and D here means order. Here means how many times do we apply the difference operation To make the original

Speaker 1  21:14  
process stationary. In this case, process means the series of daily prices. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  21:33  
could you increase the font size in Excel? Short? Why not? Let me do that.

Speaker 1  21:49  
Let me make it 25 right? So when we talk about Arima applied on daily prices, this is what each of these terms means. All right, okay, so now let's go back to the notebook.

Unknown Speaker  22:21  
Okay, I hope you can see my screen.

Speaker 1  22:30  
Okay, so I'm getting questions related to stuff that I had already covered the last time. Vira Raja is also asking it, and so is happy Panjwani. So I'm not going to be able to get into the depth of all these questions, guys, because then that will kind of not give us enough time to go through today's material. I'm going to give you, like, really short explanations here. What do you mean by so happy ask, what is the meaning of past error terms? So the point is, any model that you create right is an approximation of a real process, right? So let's take a step back. What is the purpose of a model in any field of study? Right? For example, I'm going to take a left field example here. Let's say you are studying the map of a country, right? So you are planning to visit someone here is planning to visit a certain part of India. So you look at the map of India. So depending on what you're looking at, suppose you're looking at the entire country. You can look at the political map of India. So that will give you like very clearly show you the borders of the country. It will show you each state, right? So you will be able to see the multiple states in the South, the North, the West, the east, right? So that, so does that give you a representation of India? Sure. Is that an accurate representation of India? Well, it depends on what specifically you need, right? Suppose you are looking for a topographical map of India, where you want to know, where are the plains, where are the mountains, where are the deserts and so on, then this particular political map is not going to serve your purpose, right? It tells you nothing about the climate or the nature of soil or the kind of terrain that you will encounter in those spaces. So for that, you need a completely different map. It's called a topographical map. Suppose, now, within India, you are specifically interested in, say, a state called Madhya Pradesh, right, which comes in the middle. Will the original political map give you everything you need about Madhya Pradesh? Well, it will show you all the cities. But if you're looking for, say, roads within the within a given city, will this original map give you the picture? Probably not, right. You might have to take the map of Madhya Pradesh itself and zoom in further to get more details on what's happening. Now, let's say you arrived in a city called Indore within Madhya Pradesh, and you are looking for a restaurant to eat. Can you go to the political. Map or to the topographical map? The answer is no, right? So the point being that a map is also a model of some kind of reality, right? Why do we need maps? Because the reality is so large and complicated and has so many different things going on that is impossible for you to deal with the original country itself, when you're looking at a certain specific subsection, right? That is why maps exist. Models serve the same purpose. So essentially, you are looking at a phenomenon which is pretty complex, complex, right? And the human mind cannot fully grasp it. More importantly, the human mind need not fully grasp it right at any point in time you might be interested only in certain parts of that particular you know, I would say, of the process that you're studying right so and every model, right? Every model, or every even map, is making certain approximations, right? It is not giving you like the exact positions of a particular thing that you're looking at, right? So there is some error that is embedded in the way models are created, because model is essentially trying to mimic reality. So any model will give you. Let me go back to my spreadsheet. So it's like this, okay? Reality. In its original form is difficult to fully study, observe, predict, okay, so we create a model of reality to make things easier to understand, observe, predict, right? So I just spoke about maps of countries. Similarly, if you

Unknown Speaker  27:21  
look at a medical textbook, you will have diagrams of the human heart,

Speaker 1  27:30  
the kidney, right, the brain, etc, right? So again, when, when you look at these diagrams, it depends on which level of of education you are at. So maybe at school level, the human heart will have a fairly simple, simplified image, which will show, like, say, four chambers, the atriums. And, okay, I'm not a medical student, so please don't, if anyone here is medically very well aware, please understand that I'm trying to just recollect from probably what I read it way, way back in high school. But I think the human heart has four chambers, and there are certain key arteries and veins that move out of it and pump blood in, pump blood out, etc, right? But once you get into a specialized field, if you're in med school, or if you're in a school which is teaching you specifically something like cardiology, you get into a further level of detail, right? It becomes like a high res image of the human heart or a low res image of the human heart. Does everybody need to get to the high res image? No, you can manage very well without that, even for a you know, to know just know it as a regular person, to know it as a general physician, etc, right? So it all depends on where you are standing, and at the end of the day, any model, right, any model is trying to mimic or approximate

Speaker 1  28:57  
complex process, right? So you can say process, actual, let's say, say actual, actual process or reality is equal to the model of that process or reality, plus some error. Why? Why is there going to be error? Because it's impossible for you to completely capture every aspect of that process, right? That is just the way models are by def No, in a in a perfect world, the model will perfectly capture what is happening in a process. But that's impossible, right? Because if you really want to deal with the actual process without any mistakes, just dealing with the actual process itself. But the reality is, the actual process is so hard to for the human mind to understand that you want to simplify it to some extent and have a model right. That is why that. That is why errors come into the picture so broadly or at a philosophical level. This is why errors exist any model. So even when we talk about, when we talk about. Are models of financial asset prices, right? The model is trying to simulate, not simulate, I would say, Mimic, mimic the behavior of prices, right? That is what a model is trying, yeah. So essentially, that's just the way it is right. Anything that tries to model something will be a good. Model will be right more often than not, but it will definitely have some errors associated with that. Okay, so a couple of interesting questions. Isn't Google Maps good enough to serve the same objective? So again, it depends on which how you use Google Maps, right? So yes. So if you're looking at Google Maps, also you can change the terrain and those kind of things when you're looking at it. However, if you Google Maps, by the way, is allows you to zoom in, zoom out and all that stuff. But in the market context, it's not always possible for everything to be having the same features as something like a Google Maps, right? So that is one thing. And secondly, if say you are actually out there on us on a street corner, will Google Maps capture every little thing on that street corner? So suppose there's a, there's a hole on a specific road, there's a, there's a, you know, an open manhole, for instance, on the road on which you're going. It's very unlikely that Google Maps would know that, right? So unless you live on that street, or unless you are are present on that street, Google, Google Maps may not give you that information. Do you need to know it? Well, in most cases, no. But let's say you're walking on that street, on a you know, at 11pm with no street lights, that is like really important information to have, right? So Shreyas, again, asked us, do these models create some sort of virtual reality? I wouldn't say virtual reality. They are just trying their best to look at the process and trying to capture all the important parts of that process inside that model, right? Just the way, as I said, right, you can think of actual, real maps. You can think of the drawings of organs of a human or of an animal or of a plant, or, you know, even, for instance, manuals you get when you buy a new, say, device, right? If you buy a toy for a kid and you need to assemble some sets of parts, you will have diagrams that show you all the different parts and you're bringing them together. So these diagrams are very useful. But are they going to capture the reality of the pieces that have come to your house? Certainly not right? There could be missed. There could be, you know, some dents in certain pieces that you have in your house, right? The model is not able to capture that. The model is like a generic way to capture what the parts of a given toy should look like. So basically, why am I giving you all these different illustrations, whether it's toys or maps or, you know, medical references. I'm just trying to tell you that we are talking about trying to encapsulate the most important features of something we are studying or using or predicting or building as best as we can, because everything need not be understood at atomic and sub atomic level, Right? You don't need to be like some sort of particle physicist to be able to assemble a car or assemble a toy, right? You just need to know, okay, these are the parts. This is where these parts come together, and that's how I can get them to work. Similarly, in case of a market, also, every aspect of every little movement may not be important to you when you're constructing a model using, say, Arima, family of models Arima captures. It tries its best to capture as much as it can, and if it is giving you enough leeway to be able to find, you know, islands of alpha in your universe of assets, well more power to you, right, with regard to using

Speaker 1  34:27  
them. Okay? So we took a bigger, bigger detour than I wanted to, but anyways, hopefully that has served some purpose. Let me go back to the notebook. All right. So, essentially, when we talk about these parameters, also, what I was telling you was that each of these parameters tries to capture different aspects of how those devices work, right, p, d and q, alright. So in the previous class, what we did was we use the ACF. PSA plots to select Arima 212, now the point is first, so we have multiple questions here. One is, how did we arrive at this? Second is, what if we were to apply Arima 212, or other price, right? Or other assets? So what we'll do is, let's just test for fun. What happens if you were to use Arima 212, across different assets right now, what are the different assets we'll use? Well, we use five totally different assets. So for instance, you have spy, triple Q, IWM, NVDA and Tesla, right? Spy, we know what it is now. Triple Q is the it's a similar kind of asset,

Speaker 1  35:49  
like spy, but this time, its focus is on the firm's listed on the NASDAQ. IWM focuses on the Russell 2000 which are smaller firms with smaller market cap, right? Nvidia is one of the most popular and well known stocks since the last few years, right? It's Nvidia, I think, if I remember correctly, I think it is currently the most valuable company in the world. And then you have Tesla, again, a very well known company, right? So we'll just try the same thing and see what happens, right? So, it, so we are going to test it, and we will see where, which of these is, where you know, profitable. All right, so in this code, what we are doing is we will store the profitable and loss making assets out of these five. And basically we are downloading the data from 2019 to middle of 2025, so that's about six, seven years of data, right? We'll again, work with just weekly. We'll use same order, 212, now this time, what we are doing is, instead of running it the way we did it the last time. We are only going to run it for a short range, because we are running it across five different assets, right? So if you want to do this like in full, exactly the way we did it the previous time, you can make modifications to the code and run it right. So we are doing it just for a short about 50 or two data points. We're just doing it for 50 of them and trying to see what happens, right? 50 weeks, that's approximately a year, right? And once we do that, we'll calculate all the performance, we'll store all those things, and we have also computed excess returns, which is comparing it to buy and hold, right? So excess returns would mean it should be the strategy returns minus buy and hold. If it is positive, we call classify it as a profitable ticker. Else we call it loss making. And then we see what happens, and let's just run it right so we start with spy now, since we are running it obviously on a much shorter window, I think it should take us a lot lesser time. So here, by the way, for SPY, since we are only running it on a short window, it's giving us negative returns, negative excess returns. I mean, let's see what it gives us for other assets. Okay, so for even for NASDAQ, it gives us negative returns. And also for the Russell 2000 i

Speaker 1  38:51  
Okay, so for Nvidia, it gives us 35% excess returns, and let's see what it does for Tesla, okay, so it gives us next us negative returns, right? So take about a minute to do. Took about 12 seconds per asset. So spy for that specific period, our strategy gives us 17% whereas the actual list, the buy and hold was 28 for Russell 2000 it's 23 versus 30. Here it's 13 versus sorry, this is NASDAQ. This is Russell, 14 and 28 This is 159 and 124 and this is 59 and 70, right? So if you want to generally look at what's going on, we can do a basic analysis. And so what you're finding is that it worked on one and it failed on four of them, right? So what this basically tells us is that just arbitrarily choosing that, okay, you want to work with 212, is not a great approach, right? You cannot just so since we chose 212, on one specific asset, we cannot just willy nilly choose the same one for everything. So. Because each asset may have different optimal parameters, and testing parameter combinations is a time intensive task, so we have not done that yet. Okay, right now, we just directly foisted the 212, on all the assets that we are looking at. Right? So automated. So basically, this automated approach also speeds things up, but it hasn't given us great results, right? Because we saw what just happened, we ended up with losses for four out of those five assets, right? Okay?

Speaker 1  40:55  
You. So let's go ahead. So I think I've mentioned this before, also in the previous class, that the thrust of this entire series, right, last time and this time is not so much on writing programs. The thrust is much more on you understanding the overall key topics of this of this subject, right? So getting a, you know, a little bit of a hang on, what AR is, what Ma is, what Arima is, what parameters are, ACF, bacf and wall forecasting and stuff, right? So oftentimes, what happens is, right? When we are learning a new topic if there are multiple angles to it. So if you're learning a new topic which is unfamiliar to you, and you're having to learn it in a language unfamiliar to you, such as Python, it's now you know, you're now dealing with two things which are totally new to you, right? So things can get, like, pretty uncomfortable if you have to start figuring out both at the same time. So you know, in lectures such as these, the instructor can then tell you where the focus of this lecture lies. So as far as these topics go, the focus is very much on the concepts at play here, not really the program. So that is also the reason I deliberately don't spend a lot of time on the program, even from an exam standpoint and stuff, I'm much more interested in you looking at the results and getting you know at least some idea of what's going on there, right? Looking at results, looking at tables, looking at charts and so on, or looking at performance metrics. That's the focus of lectures. All right, okay. So now what we will do is we will work with automated parameter selection. Now what does an automated parameter selection does is it now is going to start testing what is the best combination for a given asset, right? Right. So here in the in the previous illustration that we just saw, we just decided to apply a remote 21215, assets, right? So rather than just arbitrarily allocating such combinations, what we want to do is we want to pick the right one based on certain statistical scores. So for that, what we'll do is there are two interesting libraries out there. One is called PMD Arima, and the other is called SK time. Okay, both of these are very good when it comes to helping us select the order of the ARIMA model. Now, the good thing about modern libraries, right? The modern way of running statistical tests and stuff is right? It abstracts away most of the really painful parts. Now, what we have done in the last few hours is we have tried to uncover the slightly painful parts, just so we know what's going on behind the scenes, even if we were we never have to really do it ourselves. It's just good for us to have some idea of what's going on, you know, behind the scenes, right? So here we are using tool library, actually, we are using primarily, SK time, right? So, in fact, let me do one thing. Since I'm talking about SK time, I'll show you

Unknown Speaker  44:31  
one second I

Unknown Speaker  44:47  
Okay, just a minute trying to OH.

Unknown Speaker  45:17  
One minute, guys, I'm trying to share a different screen just a

Unknown Speaker  45:31  
minute.

Unknown Speaker  45:37  
This is hot, the screen I want to share.

Unknown Speaker  45:57  
This

Unknown Speaker  46:19  
Okay, So let me share my screen. Let me

Unknown Speaker  46:33  
just type, what is escape time, Python, library, Be brief and tell me about automated Harima parameter selection. Application in it, all right,

Speaker 1  47:11  
okay, so this is what SK time does. As you can see, it says it's a Python library for time series machine learning built on top of another library called psychic law, right? So it supports forecasting all this stuff. And what does automated Arima does? It provides auto Arima, which is a wrapper around a library called PMD Arima. So it okay. So this is the key part, okay. It automatically selects PDQ using search or grid. Search selection is driven by something called information criteria, whichever would be, let's just ignore it, right? And it's compatible with forecasting and stuff, that is what, essentially, this does, okay? So let's go back to the main story.

Speaker 1  48:01  
So now that we have just seen what this does. Okay, yeah, so this is what we are doing, using auto Arima. And the way to do it, by the way, is by calling SK time, dot forecasting, Arima with auto Arima, right? And where it's happening is at this stage. So here you're specifying that you don't want to go beyond D being two, you don't want to go beyond t, p being two or Q being two. So you can change these values, by the way, right? And you essentially are trying to find the best possible fit for each of your assets, right? So you're doing it identical to what you did prior to this, right? And, yeah, and that's what we are doing. So let's just run it.

Speaker 1  49:01  
So as I've mentioned here, we are just doing a one time model selection. In practice, you will keep, you know, doing a rolling running of this. So you run auto Arima on 100 weeks. So that's about two years of data. And for SPY, it selects 010, for Q, Q, Q, it selects again, 010, for IWM, it selects 102, for Tesla, it selects 122, right? It's selecting different ones for each and now we want to check where have things improved, right? That is what you want to check. So what you find is for SP, one, Spy, it is worsened. It goes from minus 11 to minus 51 for triple Q, it also worsens. For IWM, it goes in but for Tesla, it has improved, right? That is to say, out of the four for one of them, it gives one to two, and it says two. So basically, it's improved things for one of them. So what this essentially tells us is, right? Just because we are using automation, you know, automated selection of Arima parameters does not necessarily, does not imply that it is going to work awesomely for everything, right? It is working good only for one out of those four loss making assets, right? So you know when you find that it really improves for one on four, you're finding that even automated selection has underperformed manual on most assets. So it selected simple models suggesting certain limitations, maybe, maybe the ARIMA model is not a good enough family for those three assets, right? So it essentially tells us that just because you automated, it does not automatically make it like a superior way to work with these things, right?

Speaker 1  50:58  
So, so we're Gopal ask, Can we check it for Indian companies? Yes, you can. Avera Gopal, you can do it. You know, when you're doing a review of this, you can, you feel free to change the asset, you know, ticker symbols and stuff. You can do that. So those of you who are facing errors in your code, or in when you're running stuff, we look at it later. Either the TA can help you out, or we look at it post the lecture. Okay, so you want us to be run the strategy of Monte Carlo simulation data to confirm the number. So at this stage you want, I would say no one should get into the Monte Carlo stuff after we do at least a preliminary analysis of what looks interesting and what doesn't All right, raghavas At what On what basis is this auto selection of parameter done? So again, I, without getting into too much detail, I'll just say that there is one important concept called information criterion, which is used when you have to select from competing models. What does information criterion do? Basically, it is trying to find the right balance between underfitting and overfitting that occurs when you're talking about model building right under fitting means the model is just not good. At explaining the past, and it stays in the same it acts the same way even in the future. The benefit of an under fitted model is it's just simpler to look at or simpler to create. On the other hand, the over fitted model will be very good at explaining the past, but the problem is, maybe it is observing, even, you know, changes which are actually noise, not so much true changes in prices or changes in assets, even that is getting thought of or it's getting captured as real changes in prices. So it ends up becoming over complicated, and doesn't do well on unobserved or unseen data, right? So that is what overfitting is. So basically, they are like two different or extreme approaches that one takes while creating models, and one is always trying to find the right balance between underfitting and overfitting. Now the question is, how do you do that? Well, there is this approach called information criteria. It's called archaic information criteria, Bayesian information criteria. So again, these are all canned models. Okay? They're all very much available inside SK time or a PMD, Arima, or stats models, or any of the statistical libraries out there. So what we in modern algo traders, what they do is they just work with the fact that these models will pick, sorry, these libraries will pick the right model once those criteria are used. So like even here, for instance, what we did do, if you look at this code for this line, is it says Max D equal to two, Max p equal to two, Max u equal to two, information criterion equal to AIC, right? That is what helps select the model. So if, for instance, you are not sure what this line does, you can even go to say the same chat GPT search that I showed you a little while back, right? And what I can do here is I can

Speaker 1  54:34  
type this line and say, explain this line briefly. I want to know more about information criteria, lay person, so explain accordingly. Okay. So what this line is doing is it tells the computer to automatically find a good Arima forecasting for your series by trying options and picking the best one, right? So you're trying to find the best of a lot. So this max P, Max Q, Max D, limits how complex a model can be. Seasonal equal to false. Again, you can ignore this. It just assumes there is no seasonal pattern to your data. Step wise, equal to true is uses a smart shortcut instead of brute force. Suppress warnings, hide scary math warnings that don't matter for most users, and this is the main thing, information criteria equal to AIC. This is a rule used to decide which is the best, right? So as I was saying, under fitting over fitting, when fitting models, you have to choose between simple and very complicated models, right? So you don't want to miss patterns, but you also don't want to start fitting for noise, right? So reward models that fit well, but penalize models that are too complicated, right? So it's kind of a scorecard where complexity is punished, and ultimately it's easy to guess, right? So that's what should give you a basic idea of what we are doing in that specific case. All right, okay, so coming back to what we saw,

Speaker 1  56:39  
yeah, this is what ultimately we saw once we ran it, we noticed that in this case, so we define something called complexity of a model by just sum, totaling some summing the totals of p, d and q. So for instance, for SPY, we found that it was zero plus one plus zero, which is one for triple Q. Also it was one for Russell, it was three, and for Tesla it was five, right? And we found that it did well only in one of them, right? So, so far, that's what we have seen. So we have seen what auto Remainer does, right? So, okay, one second before I go ahead, I'm going to talk a little bit about some questions. Okay, so Raghav, I think that should answer your question on what basis it's done. So Nicholas asked, What's the point of parameter automation when it doesn't even find the simple Parameter Set we chose manually. So the thing is, Nicholas, we are currently just trying stuff out, right? There will be times when the parameter automation works, but the reality is that there will be a lot of times when it doesn't work. What's the point of it? There is a point in many cases. And when we try these models out, or when we try these things out, we are trying to find the assets where it's helping us and which is essentially the whole point of back testing, right? Any kind of model testing, model building that we do, we are going to end up having to discard many of the ideas that we try and eventually we'll winnow down into the most you know, I would say durable of the ideas or strategies that work. So Arab says, Don't you think it should have provided same results for indices, if not better, given the same values of as we used? So again, if you want to know why it should or shouldn't, then we'll have to start delving into the math, into specifically checking what it is that we are trying to check. The thing about the AIC is right. It is not doing any comparison with any other model. It is not comparing with a buy and hold it is, it is trying to just find the the right balance between underfit and overfit. So it depends on what the objective is. Sometimes you might end up with a, you know, an auto, auto fit, which is worse than, like you said, the PDU that we had chosen, Anusha asked, Can you do Bic and C outgos? You can try it? I would say that when you're reviewing this material, please go ahead and try that. Shriya says, What is the logical meaning of information criteria equal to AIC? Well, you have multiple choices of what your information criteria should be, and when you say equal to AIC, you have chosen the archaic information criteria, right? Like I showed you on chat, GPT, there are others that you can select. So if you do equal to say BIC, it will select a different criteria, which is also trying to do the same thing, but uses slide. Different set of rules, right, which is, again, trying to find you the right balance between underfitting and overfitting. I mean, right? So menakas can't explore seasonal component like capital. PDQ, no, that is actually outside the scope of today's lecture. We are really not concerned with seasonality. As far as today's lecture goes, right? It's obviously a very interesting topic, but not relevant for today's discussion. So arunaz, in this case, how do we know that the model is fitting correctly? The proof of the pudding is in the eating around whatever models, whatever results you get for a model, right? You ultimately are going to do so there are a lot of performance metrics right that will help us to choose between whether a particular model or a particular strategy looks good, doesn't look good, does it need tweaking? And so on, right? So based on that, you will decide whether you want to use it or you don't want to use see the whole point of finding a profitable strategy is going to be like this. It is going to be like a hit and miss game. We have a hunch. We try to create a hypothesis around that hunch. We'll find something. Sometimes we'll find profitable approaches. Most many times we won't right. Ajay, ask, Can I auto parallel? Parallelize, auto Arima across multiple assets? You can, yes, you can absolutely do it again. These are all things I leave it to you to explore. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:41  
okay, let's move ahead.

Speaker 1  1:01:53  
Okay, so now what we'll do is so we have basically gone through what parameter selection is, so we have seen how we can write across multiple, multiple assets. So basically, we started off with just using Arima, 212, and all figured out that doesn't work. Then we changed it and try to apply SK time, right? And that led us to a certain led us to finding one more profitable approach, right, but we have still not included transaction costs right, and their impact on how strategies perform, right? So now the next thing that we want to do for today is that we want to start looking at how transaction costs can impact the performance of particular of a particular strategy. So for now, what we'll do is we'll go back to our preferred asset of PayPal that we worked with last time, right? So

Speaker 1  1:02:57  
we'll work with again, like I said, PayPal. So we are going to use the same Arima strategy that we do you did the last time. We'll stick to our 212, right? And

Speaker 1  1:03:13  
we will, at least to begin with, just recreate this the predictions, all right? So to show you what we are doing here, we keep on making forecast one step at a time, right? We apply the same model, but we have used one step at a time. We compare it with the actual price, and signal is one. If forecast is greater than the actual price at any pace stage, else it is minus one, right? So the approach is basically the same as the last time. So we run it across about 240 to 50 weeks. So that's about four and a half five years of data, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:58  
So while that occurs, let me again, take a look at any questions. So far, so good.

Speaker 1  1:04:34  
Yeah, this took about less than a minute, which is okay. Now in order to apply the costs, what we will do is, first, we'll calculate returns. So we calculate the actual returns based on prices. So strategy returns, we use the signal that we had the last time. So.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:01  
Uh, and then we check for positions and so on. Right

Speaker 1  1:05:13  
now, the important part is this, okay, we need to apply transaction costs now. What are the transaction costs? Well, in the US, when I check last, it is around point zero, 3% per trade. Okay, so I, since we are working with PayPal, I added this, it's going to be point 0003, now, obviously this depends on your transaction costs in your specific market for your assets. So this is basically country specific as well as broker specific. Based on how much you trade with your broker, you might get these percentages you know to be different right now, what you do is, based on this percentage, you can multiply it and essentially calculate and see what's happening. So you calculate the gross returns based on what happens with the transactions, and you also calculate it after you net off the transaction cost, right? So you can do all of that and check what you get. So once you start incorporating the costs, right? So in my case, I went to the dates. Let's see what dates we pick.

Speaker 1  1:06:40  
Okay, so we basically just worked with some data that we already had, and on for that specific data set, we find that the before costs, our strategy gave us 80% returns. After cost, it gave us 73% returns. Right now the buy and hold in that same period was 58% so basically what happened is the 79 has come down to 73 so we paid about 6% on transactions right now using, obviously US market transaction costs. Now, the thing is, since PayPal is a very, very liquid stock, and on NASDAQ, it trades with tight spreads and zero commissions. That's the reason the numbers look a lot healthier than they could have looked, right? So before cost, if you look at the excess returns compared to buy and hold, it used to be it would have been 21 it became 15, right? So what it tells us is that the strategy continues to maintain positive excess returns after cost, which is a good sign, right? However, the cost impact was that there is a 29% reduction in end returns, right? In terms of, like, it's come down by, you know, six odd percent. So in this case, what this tells us is that the strategy still works pretty well after adding costs. It lost about, you know, 6.2% of excess returns to trading costs. So this is a percentage change, right? And the number of trades that happened in this period was about 118 not 187 right? So, so this works out to what 15 trades a year, right? That's not, that's not a lot. It's just like one, one and a half trades per month. So this is, you know, something to keep in mind with regard to when we are analyzing strategies. How does cost affect the performance of a strategy.

Speaker 1  1:08:51  
Okay, so some questions, how do you use spider for arimagat? Well, spider is just like one many tools you can use. You can, once you have your libraries and stuff installed, you can, you can use it just the way you could use the way we are using it on Jupiter, all right. Sonia asked, Is Arima the most accurate in forecasting? That's a very generic question. Sonia, I cannot give you like a yes and no answer, because it depends on where you're using it, on what asset and so on, right? So one thing we should all know and learn as budding algo traders is that there are no magic bullets. There are no silver bullets here. There is no magical approach that will give you everything that you want, right? Everything has to be tested carefully on the assets we are interested in, the markets we are interested in considering the, you know, the brokerage, etc, that we will be facing right Arun asks, Is transaction cost, assuming single trade is transaction so transaction cost assumes that you will be paying a transaction cost, whether you buy or sell. So. Right? So Sonia asked, what is hazimah used for which scenario, whenever you're working with strategies, Sonia and others, please understand that you have to try different things on your data set. Okay, so this is how I look at constructing a trading strategy, the first thing one should do when one is trying to work with trading strategies is work with the simplest of techniques. And the some of the simplest techniques still are pretty well time tested. They work in pockets, here and there. And if you can find assets, and if you can find those approaches working for you, please go ahead and use it as long as it can work for you, right? So something like a moving average approach. If the moving average is giving you enough profitable strategies which is able to for you to be able to deploy your capital, please go ahead and do it. However, if you find that as markets get more efficient and as as people get more aware, your opportunities to make money off of these techniques is going to become a little short lived, right? And that is when you need to start using these other types of techniques, whether it is Arima or whether it is cards or any machine learning techniques, also for that matter, right? That is the whole purpose. Which scenario, in scenarios where your your preferred approaches are not making you money, you you start looking at other techniques.

Speaker 1  1:11:30  
So Kishore asked for PayPal, we use five years and you got 120 trades, I did not understand when the trade signal changes. So the trade signal changes basically based on your forecast, right? So if suppose so, imagine it this way for sure, if I'm making a forecast for next week, and my forecast so I'm going to keep comparing it with what actually happened, right, with the with my back test. So my if my back test tells me that the forecast is of next week is greater than the present price, then I am going to go long. Else I'm going to go short. That's the general approach that we are following. Okay, um,

Speaker 1  1:12:23  
the bigger companies use a mix. So again, Sonia continues to ask these questions related to techniques. Companies use an assortment of techniques. There is no one single technique that firms use Investment Companies depend. So everything depends on how frequently they trade. What is the mandate they have and so on, right? So a high frequency trading firm has a completely different approach. All the stuff that we are talking about are primarily concerned with medium and low frequency, right? That is what firms use. It all boils down to how what is the capital you have and how much do you need to deploy, how frequently do you want to trade? What are your brokerage rates? So once you have those things in place, then you try to start finding profitable strategies, keeping certain constraints in mind. That's the general approach that one should follow. So Archi says Harima is just one of the many mathematical models available. There must be other prediction models. Can you talk about them? So I would say that you have a whole series of models that are used, where you use, say, machine learning or deep learning models, right? So those become mathematical slash ml based models. What are the other prediction models that get used? There's a lot of natural language processing also that comes into play. So you use, you know, a lot of textual data. Try to garner sentiment from there and work with that. Alright, okay, so I think now is a good time for us to take a short break and then continue from there, because we are actually slightly beyond the time that I would have wanted to give you guys a break. So let me open the clock.

Speaker 1  1:14:06  
So let's resume at 1725, so I'll see you guys in about 10 minutes. Bye.

Unknown Speaker  1:15:07  
What is the part that I Okay?

Speaker 1  1:15:21  
So we go in through the transaction cost part. And what is the part that I want to show you? Yeah, let's visualize the cost impact. So here what we do is we plot how the costs are making an impact on our performance. Okay, so what you have here is a blue line and a red line. Now in this case, the blue line and the red line are like nearly overlapping each other, because the transaction costs in the case of PayPal, are like, really low, right? This is not true for many cases. If you're trading something which is slightly less liquid, that you will see a bigger gap between the blue and the red line. Also, it's interesting to note that this strategy was like, really, very, very profitable in 2023 and even 2024 it's in the recent, maybe last 12 months or so that the strategy has started looking quite bad compared to a buy and hold, right? And if you look at how these costs are adding up over time, this is not too surprising that this is like a step graph, right? Every time a trade happens, you can see that it's shifting by a certain level, and it keeps going up over time. So cost will obviously add up as the more you trade, the more it's going to eventually cost you. So the total cost over the whole period turns out to be like some three and a half percent. Again, this is so low primarily because the number of trades also low, and even the transaction cost was just like point 00, 0.03% per trade right now. So far, what we have done was that we have been assuming that the risk is constant throughout that period, right? But the reality is, when we start looking at market data, we find that the wall itself changes over time, right? We have seen it in the last class. Also that when you start observing the way volatility looks. When you look at, say, the returns, the daily returns or the weekly returns over a long period of time, you will find that there are times when the markets look really volatile and look quite stormy, and there are times where it looks quite benign, right? And this should inform the way we size our trades, right? That is essentially the purpose of modeling volatility, right? So this our transaction cost, shows that the Rema strategy was profitable, but we kept treating risk as a constant. But we know that in the markets, this is not true, right? Like during covid crisis or during rate hikes that happened in 2022 or, for that matter, in 24 and 25 there were multiple wars that took place, right? So market conditions change, and suddenly there is a significant shift in the way volatility is observed for many months, right? So that risk characteristics of the markets change, and this should influence the way we take positions on any specific asset that we own, right? So here, what we'll do is now we are going to examine how volatility clustering looks when you look at PayPal, and we'll also explore why dynamic risk management can improve our strategies in general, right? So what we'll do is we will compute daily returns like we have done in the past, and we will also compute rolling volatility. So here what we are doing is we are working with 30 day windows, and we will multiply it by the square root of 252, because that's the number of trading days. So we are annualizing the wall at any point in time, right? Okay? Um, and then we'll mark out certain periods. So we'll look at the pre covid, the covid, the recovery, and so on, right? So we have these different periods, and we will see how it looks, right? So when you look at the if you start. Computing the volatility. So first, I want to show you that the way we are computing volatility is by looking at the rolling standard deviation. That's one commonly used approach to calculate volatility. And we'll note, we'll calculate what the volatility in each of those periods is, right? The pre covid, the covid and so on. So in the pre covid period, the annual volatility used to be about 48% with a range of 29 to 69 but during covid, you can see it has jumped to 84 so the range went from 33 to 139 and in the recovery period, was 51% with 22 to 90 the bear market also was quite high, so 64 and in the last two, three years, it has been about 60% right? So if wall changes as drastically as it does in 1920 2122 and so on, can we risk the same amount in all these periods? The answer should be clearly a No, right? Now, what we are seeing with respect to numbers here, you can also observe the same thing with regard to like a chart, right? Because these charts can be very helpful in helping us visualize what's going on. So this is really how the price of PayPal has been moving for the last six, seven years, right? And so this is the price series. Then you have the returns. Now you have the covid ball that happens in this period, then you have the bear market that happens in this period. And then you can similarly mark out many such phases. So I have marked out two of them here. And if you look at the 30 day ruling wall, also in this entire period, what you see is that in this entire period, for very long, it stays above. This red line, right? It says above. And those are the periods when the wall is, like, pretty high, right? Compared to even like, typically the high. So what you do notice is that there are high periods. So when you know when the volatility stays high. So it stays high for, like, really long. If it stays low, also it has phases where it stays low. If it stays high, it stays in that sense. So basically, this is like a very, very commonly and well understood, well observed phenomenon in financial markets. It's called volatility clustering, right? So the technical word for this is called heteroscedasticity. That is to say, I know that word is a mouthful, but really in simple language, what it implies is that the volatility itself keeps changing depending on when you're observing it over time, right? So there will be phases when the markets are highly volatile, and there will be phases when they are, you know, pretty low in terms of volatility, right? So when it stays high, when it is high, it continues to stay high for a while. When it stays low, it continues to stay low for a while. It doesn't, you know, kind of, it's not like returns. So returns are nearly random. So one day's returns and the next day's returns tend to be almost, they are almost quasi random, right? That's not the case with wall. With wall, there seems to be like a positive autocorrelation. If you look at at multiple lags, you know, lag, 12345, and stuff. So the patterns that you observe is that the risk varies from as low as like 15% annually to well over 100% right? So the fixed approach to taking positions in the market ignores the fact that this is how volatility behaves and that so if you're ignoring a very visible market phenomenon, it is to your own detriment, right? So it's important for us to incorporate this in our trading strategies, right? So the basic approach is this, that when trading strategies used a fixed position size, right? Regardless of market conditions, it creates a lot of risk during volatile periods and missed opportunities during calm periods, right? So let's say you are spending $10,000 per trade right, in a low wall period. This is the equivalent of risking 120 $6 per day, whereas in a high wall period, it's the equivalent of risking $500 per day, right? So clearly, the risk associated in the high wall is like four times the risk of the low wall period. So if that is the case, then the amount that you invest should. Should change based on the wall, right?

Speaker 1  1:25:10  
So basically, this is what we are trying to do here. And the way to do that is like few, if you start computing them. Let's just, let me show you the computation here. What we are doing is you're saying that the low wall period has 20% annual the high wall period, okay, I've taken it as 100 Year, and the position size says 10,000 so this is annualized numbers. So in order to get the daily wall numbers, you can compute it by dividing it by the square root of 252, and the risk that you run then becomes the size of your position multiplied by the wall. Right? So what that does is it means that in a low wall period, your risk is 126, whereas high wall, it is 630 so rather than this, right? We can put up, you know, a number of maybe $1 number on the risk that we are willing to run on any given day, and we decide the position size based on the wall at that point in time. So now the question is, if that is the approach we are going to take, how are we going to know the wall? Well, for that, we are going to need models that predict wall, and that creates the segue for us to move into talking about arch and Guard family of models, right? So, let me go back to my spreadsheet.

Speaker 1  1:26:59  
So we are going to talk first about arch, right? So what is arch? It is auto regressive, conditional, hetero schodasticity, right? So let's understand each part of this term. So we know auto regressive, this is AR, right? So auto regressive means

Unknown Speaker  1:27:24  
regression perform on itself that is past or lagged versions of itself.

Unknown Speaker  1:27:37  
Right then, let's come to the word heteroscedasticity. So hetero means different,

Speaker 1  1:27:57  
and I think it's like a Greek or Latin or Roman word for variance, right? So essentially, what this is saying is that it is changing or different variants. That's what this says. And conditional means. It is conditional at a certain point in time. So this is it, this, this model is conditional on a certain point in time. So you compute it based on the conditional. So the conditional heteroscedasticity depends on what the wall is today. That is what it means, right? So basically, what you're trying to say is the predicted variance is going to be a function of past variance. That is what by equal to f. I mean a function of right? It means predicted variance is a function of past variance. That's what it means. So now let's go back to the notebook.

Speaker 1  1:29:15  
Okay, so we have seen that volatility punches up clusters and varies over time, so arch provides a way to predict them. And R stands for autoregressive conditional heteroscedasticity, that is today's fall depends on recent market shocks, right? So, you know, in equation format, this is how it looks. It says sigma squared is equal to omega plus alpha into epsilon square t minus one. So the sigma square t really is today's variance or tomorrow's variance, however you look at let's call it today's variance. Okay, so I'm again coming back to Okay, wait, let me do one thing. Call. Is my spreadsheet.

Speaker 1  1:30:15  
Yeah, so what you're saying is that today's variance, today's predicted variance, let's just say that today's predicted variance is going to be equal to some baseline variance levels plus alpha, right, which is the impact of yesterday's shock, or the previous day shock multiplied by yesterday's squared returns, right? This is what is the model, right? That is what this model is saying. And this yesterday's squared returns is really a function of is it's a proxy for past variants. So yesterday's, or rather, yeah, let's say yesterday's squared returns is a proxy for yesterday's varies. Okay, so basically, that's what we are doing here. And yeah, now let's go back to the notebook. Okay, so before I go ahead, I'm going again, going to take a look at some questions.

Speaker 1  1:32:01  
Okay, could you logically simplify arch with examples? Does ARIMA model work in conjunction with wall models? Do we know this is a beautiful question Arun Kumar asks, Does ARIMA model work in conjunction with wall models? Do we need to look at models together for decision making? So the simple answer to your question is yes, Arun, they work really well as a combination, and that is one of the ways by which we use GARCH. So we combine it with Arima when we want to make returns or price predictions or improve the quality of our predictions. Okay, so you kind of manage to guess what where this goes. So this is one commonly used way in which arts and cards is used. There are other use cases for arts and cards which I will come to as the class moves on. Okay, so vira Raja asked, Could we make the position size inversely proportional to rolling on with a max and min? Yes, you can do all these things. Vira Raja, this is also an interesting approach. So essentially, see any approach you take for position sizing. Right means that you are now trying to think carefully about how risk should impact the level of investments you make. So that is, you are on the right track when you said what you just did. Okay? So Nikolaj asked, why not take yesterday's variance directly instead of approx? Instead of a proxy? So there is not much difference between the two. It is easier to work with returns, and that is why we end up using the returns as a proxy. Okay? But it's a valid question. What you just asked, may not ask, why do we need a model for prediction of variance, as it comes with an as it comes with an error? Can't we do simulation? So the thing is, in general, these garage models work pretty well, and that is why we work with them rather than doing anything else. The guy who came up with art man, his name is, I'm blanking out on the name, He even won a Nobel Prize for it. Bowlers. Love was the one who came up with guards. Can't remember the guy's name, very famous person who won a Nobel economics Prize for it. I'll look it up in this class itself. I can't, until I get this name out of my head. It's going to irritate me. Okay, you don't ask you to square returns of square error, it's squared returns in this case, okay, I'm going to show you a bunch of other things. Can you simplify arts with examples? Yeah, I'm going to try and do that a little bit. How do you calculate seasonal wall? No, Robert Engel, yes, thank you, Yash, thanks for looking it up. Yes, it was Engel who won the Nobel Prize. Okay, I don't know what you mean by seasonal wall shares. I presume what you mean is, how do you compute wall? So one of the ways to compute vol is just moving. Standard Deviation. I think somebody was asking me for a simplified explanation for for arch or any

Speaker 1  1:35:14  
I would say, Okay, I'm just trying to think of some illustration to talk about arch or GARCH.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:33  
Okay, so let's say we are talking about sports season. Okay? Of of

Speaker 1  1:35:45  
a sport. So since my my favorite sport is cricket, and let me just talk about cricket. So suppose there's a there's a tournament that's going on, right? And you are the person who is in charge of selling tickets. Okay, so you need to price your tickets such that you can maximize the purchase of tickets, which is going to have some relation with the pricing of the ticket, right? So what you need to do is you need to, okay, I'm just kind of making this up while I'm talking to you guys, so I might have to do some self correction, since I'm trying to find a good way to explain arch or GARCH minus the markets. Okay, basically, what you're trying to do is you are trying to improve. So basically, okay, so let's, let's let's just try to see what happens in the case of a sports season. Okay, so there will be times when suppose we are talking about a specific venue that belongs to a specific team, so it's the home team. Now the purchase of tickets inside that inside the stadium of the home team depends on the performance of the home team. So the home team is doing like really well, then tickets will sell much better, because fans are happier to go and watch their favorite team play, whereas if the team is having a terrible season, fewer people are going to walk into the stadium, right? So there is going to be a sense that if the team is going through a winning run, you can consider that to be like a cluster, right? So a cluster of games where the demand for the ticket is very high, and there will be a phase when the demand for the ticket will go really low, if suppose the team is going through a run where the tickets are getting really cheap, right? So this becomes, and let's say you are trying to find the right price to increase the probability of full stadiums. So like a fan who wants to watch a match when the team is doing well, would be much more willing to pay a higher price when the team is doing well as opposed to when the team is not doing well. So if you find like a low enough price, you might still find takers for it, right? So essentially, what arch and GARCH is trying to do is it is trying to model for the variance that occurs in the winning times and in the losing times. Okay, that is like a very, very loose example I can think of in terms of what the arts model is trying to do. Okay, I'm going to have to think a little harder about this to tighten this up. But thank you for the idea. You asked me a question. I'm going to think this through and try to find an analogy which can explain this for people to relate better to it. So, yes, exactly. So Shreyas writes that in case of the Women's World Cup, Cricket World Cup that happened in India, there was not much expectation. The team wasn't doing particularly well, but as the tournament rolled by, their performance improved, and suddenly, when the team made it through the knockout stages, the demand for the tickets just rose right so the person who is selling the tickets, the person who's setting up the website, needs to figure out what to price it at so that the stadiums are full. So essentially, that is what the arts and guards models do. They are trying to you. Uh, gage the variance based on which phase of the market we are in. All right, okay, so let's now move ahead. Okay, so in order to work with the arch and guards models, right, we need to work with a library called arch, okay, and since we are on this, I want to show you the library. So.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:01  
Let me put my screen on, share. Okay, so here suppose I say, tell me about the arch Python library. P3

Speaker 1  1:40:30  
so this library is for modeling time series wall used in econ and quant finance, and it's used for modeling wall rather than prices or returns. And it's used for estimating arch guards family of models. So this is all these other ones that I refer to. We are concerned with just the first two, and it forecasts wall right. Returns can be unpredictable if the volatility clusters are better, so you usually model. So yeah, it's a fairly well established library, and this is also a good time for me to open the arch library. Arch

Speaker 1  1:41:24  
hope you can see my screen. Let me make sure you can Okay, it does look like it's good.

Speaker 1  1:41:36  
Yeah. So arch is a popular class of wall models that use observed values of returns are, and this is how it looks. So RT is equal to mu plus epsilon t, yeah. So one of the reasons we are able to use epsilon t, I think somebody was asking earlier, was that even the mean returns right, it has a constant term. So even if you were to take out the constant term, if you do, like, for those of us who are like comfortable with stats, if you do where of RT equal to where of mu plus epsilon t, since mu itself is constant, it just goes away, and where of the variance of ET epsilon t is equal to the variance of RT, I think that is a tighter explanation than what I mentioned. And this is how it looks. And it gives you some details. It's a pretty decent documentation to tell you how to work with the harsh model. Of course we are going to work with it, so I'll go back to our notebook, but this is like for your information. Okay? So what we do here is, oh, at least for the beginning part, I think we are using something in stats models. Okay, cool. So in order to work and check for the arch effects, what you can do is you can test for Arch effects using this. That's, in fact, since we are doing This, I'll show you,

Unknown Speaker  1:43:10  
let's, let's do this.

Speaker 1  1:43:30  
Yeah, so it's a test for Arch effects. It checks whether volatility changes over time instead of staying constant. So do so it's do big moves in my data tend to cluster together, and this is what they're trying to do, right? This is a standard angle large LM test in stats models. That's what this does. Okay? So let's go back to the notebook. Okay, so you calculate a bunch of stats, LM, stats, P value, f stat, FP, value, and if the LM value, P value is less than point oh five, it means arch is detected. Otherwise limited, arch found. You can also do a check with squared returns. So you can do weekly returns multiplied by two and check how they look. So let's do that. So

Speaker 1  1:44:42  
so what you're finding in this case is that limited arch effects are found. It's not very, very clearly visible, but it's there and here, when you look at the squared returns, when you start squaring the returns, you can see that when you look at the auto correlation of. Squared returns. It looks like there is some effect at lag one, at lag six, at lag 18, and so on, right. It's nearly at the at the edge, right? So if the bars extend beyond the blue bands, it tells us that there is some wall clustering that is being observed, right? So this is what it tells us. There is some arch effects. And so in order to start modeling, you work with something called the ARCH model. So within the arch library itself, we have ARCH model. So you construct the ARCH model again, you just keep making forecasts for one period at a time. So inside this also what you're doing is you're just saying horizon equal to one, so you're just forecasting the next period ball. And you keep doing like a rolling forecast, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:45:57  
And, yeah, let's just do it. So it's a rolling forecast. So when you implement it,

Speaker 1  1:46:07  
what you're looking for, essentially is you're looking at the wall forecasts. So your forecast for the last eight rows is something like this, 7.3% 7.4 7.18 and so on. And at that period, the returns were point one, 1.3 7.3 7.9 and so on, right? That's what it tells you. So the wall forecast, by the way, it only tells you the level of risk. It does not tell you the direction of return. So it need not be that, if the wall is high, the returns have to be positive. The returns could very well be negative also, right? So the returns that we are showing here are only shown for context. They are not to show that, hey, there is a relation between these two, right? You can also see how the alpha so if, in case, you're wondering what alpha is. It is the parameter that we are trying to estimate which is this right? Impact of yesterday's shock, impact of the it's not, in our case, it's last week shock. So if you want to look at the previous week's shock, the impact alpha will tell you that, and you can see that even alpha, it keeps going from point six, one all the way up to point 6768, it went as low as point five, five, right. And if you run through the whole thing, you find that alpha ranges from point two, eight, 2.67, 2.67 all the alphas were non zero, and the average alpha was point three, nine. So it tells us that there is some wall that I mean, there is some arch effects that are being seen in our data, right? And if you want to, like, know a little bit more, you can even check that your wall forecasts were about 10% average, preparing from seven to about 17. The Alpha varied from point two, eight to point six, seven. So there was modest wall clustering. And now, since we are already seeing this, it sets us up pretty well for applying it to size our positions, right? So what is the objective? We want to keep risk constant based on wall, right? So you adjust the position size based on wall, and our relationship is pretty straightforward. Risk is position size multiplied by wall. So if you want to maintain position size as constant, you target a risk amount in dollar terms, and you divide it by wall, so it will tell you what your size of position should be, right? So let's say your target risk is that I'm willing to risk up to $2,000 per trade. It means that in a high wall period, you can invest up to $50,000 so 4% and low wall period, you can invest $100,000 right? So in both scenarios, you're risking exactly 2000 but you're using different position sizes. So you do position size is position portfolio value multiplied by risk budget divided by wall forecast. So basically, this is essentially what you're doing, right? You just want to make sure this is true, right? Your position size is driven by the dollar value that you have put for the target risk, right? So suppose you have $100,000 portfolio, and you are willing to risk up to 2% per trade, right? So that you can calculate it portfolio multiplied by risk budget should give you the dollar value of your risk that you're willing to run, and you can calculate portfolio, sorry, position size based on the wall forecast, right? So. And this position size multiplied by wall forecast will tell you how much risk you are willing to run, right? So you can, again, basically just check what it looks like for that period, right? Let me just check what we have done here.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:37  
Okay, yeah, uh,

Speaker 1  1:50:47  
yeah. So basically, what we are saying is that we are willing to risk $2,000 so in 2021 19 September week, we were willing to go up to $22,000 in certain weeks, we were willing to go up to go up to 26 27,000 and there were weeks in which we invested as less as $11,000 right, or $12,000 so the position size itself in just that period of, you know, September to November, it varied from 11,000 to 28,000 right. So risk per trade stays around the same constant, and basically that's what we are getting here, right? So we only use the last periods wall shock in order to determine how much of a position size we're going to take. So you're just relying on the previous period shock. It does not capture longer term persistence, right? But what Gaj does is it tries to add that longer term view on to the recent shocks that happen. So you add the wall memory into it. So you want to include recent shocks, just the way arch does, and then you want to add recent Wall level laws. That's that's what you're trying to do with garage one, one. So it kind of builds on Arch one. I like to think of arch one as the equivalent of AR one. So what we do when it comes to AR, one for returns and Arma for so when you work with ARMA models, that is AR plus ma on returns, it captures both the returns as well as the errors. So GARCH one, one, GARCH is equivalent to Arma and arch is equivalent to R, ar, sorry, right. So difference being you're working with variance, right? Okay, so before I go ahead, I'm going to go and take a look at some questions.

Speaker 1  1:52:56  
Okay, I cannot imagine learning Python without, yeah, yeah. So it's definitely very helpful to have these generative AI tools on the side. However, I've said this, I think in some classes before. Also, I still think that when you when it comes to learning a programming language, at least for the first probably month or so, you should keep your usage of chat GPT and others to nearly zero, because there is a certain amount of time that needs to get invested in order to understand syntax, in order to understand things like loops, data structures and so on. Before you start applying and using chat GPT and other things, right? If you start using them too early, you don't develop enough of a comfort with regard to writing Python code, even four to five lines without AI assistance. But anyways, that's a separate subject. How do you how to so right now, we are not trading wall clustering, but we are learning how to make forecasts with regard to wall and using that in order to size our positions right size our trades. That is the present use of at least the example so far that we have seen. I'm going to talk about other things we can use. So Yasha, can we use this wall forecast through other things I'm going to talk about it. Could you explain GARCH again? I am going to explain it again just a minute. So here, when we talk about arch, as I've written here, arch captures wall, but it has limitations because it's only using the previous periods wall right now. What you do with respect to guard Chase, you add wall persistence, that is, you will consider both the recent shocks and the recent Wall level. So I'm going to show you the equation of guard. On one right.

Unknown Speaker  1:55:03  
So let me copy paste this on to my spreadsheet.

Speaker 1  1:55:17  
Okay, so let's see what happens with comparing when we start comparing arch and GARCH. So as we've seen before, with arch, what happens is you are trying to forecast the next period's variance by looking at what happened in the previous period. Now in GARCH, what you're trying to do is you're trying to add one more layer to it, which is to say that if there is a persistence of a certain level in the last few periods, or rather, the last specific period. You want to add that also as a component. So essentially, Omega takes care of the baseline variance, the sigma squared t minus one part takes care of the persistence that exists in the wall. And the beta tells you what is the weightage that is attached to the persistence that we observe, right? So you have three components now, omega, alpha and beta. So all three components get estimated, and a higher value of beta essentially tells you that the wall that's been observed in the recent past if, if that value is high, it means the volatility shocks that exist in your system are lasting longer, right? That's what this implies.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:28  
Now let's go back to the

Unknown Speaker  1:56:39  
forecast.

Speaker 1  1:56:52  
Okay, before I go to arch, I'm going to look at some questions. So may have asked for one thing to understand, arch will predict the wall and will predict the position. So basically, arch does not predict the position size. Arch gives you an idea of the volatility. Okay, let's understand one thing, man, again, others with arch, we are trying to get a handle on the prediction for the next periods volatility. What do you do with that information depends on your preference for trades, right? So some people prefer to trade in the equity markets. They don't like to dabble in, say, the options markets, right? So if you want to purely use it on trading equities, what you do is use that wall, the volatility that you calculate, to decide on the size of the position based on the risk that you are estimating in the subsequent period, right? So that means we are using the the arch predicted volatility to decide on the position size. To determine the position size. There is another question that someone, I think Yasha, someone asked, what else can you do with this arch information? Well, the predicted wall is a very important variable to figure out what to do with options contracts, because in options contracts you have implied wall, you have realized wall, and based on your forecast, you can decide on which options contracts you want to trade in. Do you want to trade in the calls, the puts? Do you want to write the options etc? Now, since this lecture is not options focused. I am not going to talk about utilizing wall forecasts in the world of options trading, in the in the lectures that pertain to options trading, the faculty will talk about using these forecasts in the world of options trading, all right, but I'm kind of giving you a glimpse of what can potentially happen when you have volatility forecasts. Himanshu asked, Is vix based on the ARCH model? So VIX is a prediction of all, I'm not sure. I don't know how they go about computing it. It's a good question, but I'm sorry I do not have a direct answer to it. Okay, Yasha for position size should be also not taken to consideration confidence intervals. Sure you can also consider that. I'll talk about that also you can, but yeah, that's a valid point. You can consider it. There was another question that I saw. Okay, thing that is covered. Now, let me go ahead. Okay, let's talk about implementing ruling guards. So in order to do rolling guards, what we're doing is the key part is here, how we apply it. So we say guards model, and we specify the model that we want is wall equal to GARCH that's where you specify here, P is equal to 1q is equal to one. Is taking care of the the order that is GARCH one, one is going to be mentioned by putting p equal to 1q equal to one. The good thing about arch and GARCH is we, we don't go beyond arch one and GARCH one, one. Okay, compared to Arma Arima, where one. The order changes a lot here. The order is like in 90, 95% of the cases it it is arch one and GARCH one, one. In rare cases, we take it as arch two. But even that is not so common. Okay? So you, you fit the model, you extract the parameters, that is omega alpha and beta. And you make forecasts for one one period at a time, right? This is, again, a rolling forecast. So you keep doing this and, yeah, let's just run this.

Speaker 1  2:00:41  
Yeah. So the forecast in that period is 3% 2% 2% it was pretty high here, 18, 1117, and so on. So the actual returns in that period was point one, one, 1.32 7.33 and so on, the alpha, beta. And the persistence that is, that you get is these three live values right now, this persistence is the mean of persistence, which is alpha plus beta. Okay, so in case you're wondering, what is persistence, it is alpha plus beta, and we have said that if the persistence is like, really high, it means volatility shocks last long otherwise. So these are all like, typically accepted figures for average and moderate and high, high, moderate and low, right? So what you're seeing here is that the average persistence is around point six, four. And if it's low means the wall mean reverse quickly, right? So in our case, it's pretty low, right? Now, if you want to know what the forecast were, okay, I think this has happened twice. I think this is, yeah, I think I brought it wise. Okay, so now we have wall forecast from both arch and GARCH, and let's compare the forecasting accuracy and usefulness. So the comparison is going to help us look at accuracy, reliability and implications on position sizing, right? So first, we'll compare them, right? We'll align them and check their errors and look at the metrics and so on, right? So let's do that here. So what we find is that the mean error for Arch one was 5.67 whereas here it was 5.61 so there's not much of a difference. It's it's not that Karch is like much better than arch. It is just slightly lower in terms of forecast error. The evolution of the parameters is point six, six in case of alpha and point six, nine. So this tells us that the models are varying significantly, that is, they are adapting to the way conditions change over a period, right?

Speaker 1  2:03:15  
If you want to see what is happening with regard to the parameters. So alpha is there's a moderate change in parameters, whereas for beta, it is high, right? That's what it tells us. Now,

Speaker 1  2:03:38  
some things for us to keep in mind with regard to them, actually, wait, let me see whether. What are the other things we will talk about? Okay, actually, let's do one thing, guys, I think this is, again, a nice time to take another short break, and then we'll come back and continue the rest of it, because, again, there's a lot of comparison related stuff I need to talk about. I would rather you guys take a short break and come back before we continue. So let's resume again at 1825 so I'll see you guys in about 10 minutes. You.

Speaker 1  2:06:55  
Hazim of student t distribution, or a student t distribution, right, they have S Cross assets, an extension of arch that is also correct. Everything else is pretty similar. That is true. All right, let's go ahead. Let's forge ahead. So basically, both these models right arch as well as guards. They assume that returns are normally distributed, for simplicity. But what we do find empirically, and it's been found like across markets, across time periods, across assets, is that returns typically have three things, so they are fat tails, right? So the kurtosis. So when you talk about fat tails, where is really talking about kurtosis? Here, right? High probability of extreme events, they have asymmetry, so that's skewness, right? So different behavior and returns on either side of the mean. And, yeah, excess kurtosis, as I've mentioned, right? So if that is the case, then what we should use, which better captures these things, is a skewed student t distribution, or a student t distribution, right now, in reality, when you talk about professional asset managers or money managers, they tend to use one of the things mentioned here. So instead of saying this equal to normal, which is the simple approach that we have taken, they would take this equal to t, which is for fat tails. And either sometimes this equal to skew T for fat tails plus asymmetry. Right now, if you want to look at the comparison of how these specific models did? We can look at their forecasts like this. So arch in that period, right? This is how the blue line tells you how the arch forecast look like, and the red line tells you how the garage forecast look like. So you can see that GARCH made a big difference here in this period, right when it was looking at the forecast of October, November of that year, right? And if you look at the parameter evolution also, so the total so if you look at the garage parameter evolution. It stayed kind of in a certain range around point six until September of the year, but then it started mounting right? And while it even did that, you can see that the wall persistence really went up in the last two, three months of the year, right? That's what we are seeing. And you and you can see that cash forecasts are showing more variation, and they also are able to capture the differences with regard to market conditions. So now, in terms of position sizing, also so similar to what we had done in the previous case, if you start to look at position sizes, you. For the last few periods, you will see that in the case of GARCH, you are going, you know, changing your position from as low as $10,700 to as high as $80,000 right? So the variation is much higher than it was in the case of arch, right? So it goes from a range of 10,700 to 80,000 so it's a size variation of like 7.4x and you are keeping the risk per trade to be constant at $2,000 right? So there is a significant change or adjustment in terms of positions based on the wall that you're calculating. Now, when you look at the persistence column that we've computed here at Point 7.91, and so on. So persistence is basically alpha plus beta, there is a total wall memory. Anything near one means it's high. Wall clustering. Values near zero means it's random, and it shows how long wall shocks predict persist and help predict future wall behavior, right? So in our case, we see that the values are like really high. So clearly there are shocks that are being observed for long periods of time, right? So currently what we have is you have a professional wall modeling with persistence. You have rolling implementation to avoid look ahead bias. You have position sizing, and you can see how parameters change. So which makes it very, very which you know, we are now poised to use both Arima and GARCH, as one of the students pointed out, you know, many, quite some time back, is we can now use Arima for price direction, and we can use garage for figuring out wall. So since both also use the rolling way, we can combine them to form a complete trading system, right? So now we are combining two different things for two different objectives. So Arima for direction cards for wall forecast, which help us with sizing. So the final step is combining them into a position sizing system. So position size is going to be direction signal multiplied by risk budget divided by vol forecast. So this creates a strategy that adapts to both market direction and risk level, right? So again, we'll say that our portfolio is at a size of 100,000 we are willing to risk 2% per trade. Obviously, all these numbers can be changed. Guys, please change it as per your preferences. We will generate signals using Arima, 212, and we will use GARCH for wall predictions, right? So Arima signal generation happens here, and GARCH predictions will happen we So basically, we use the forecast that we had already run in the previous case, and we will combine them, right? So let's do that. We have create, we are creating an Arima guard strategy. So let us do this. Let's run this and see what happens. And while that happens, let's, let me take a look at some questions. Okay, so both these questions have been answered. So

Unknown Speaker  2:13:46  
yeah, so we have genetic signals.

Speaker 1  2:14:12  
So this part is the same. So you're calculating the actual returns, the gross returns, you're adding transaction costs right? Since

Speaker 1  2:14:29  
we are looking at multiplying by point zero 3% here, and you

Unknown Speaker  2:14:43  
you calculate the number of trades that occur, right? Okay,

Speaker 1  2:14:57  
so let's run them all together. Or so, what you do find is the number of trades remains the same. Obviously, this is about 118 and you have like, 136 long signals and 103 short signals, and you have integrated them in order to give you a certain type of returns, right? So, basically, what we have done here is we have built a complete Arima guard second.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:33  
Scroll down.

Speaker 1  2:15:45  
Sorry, guys, I had to refresh the screen, yeah. So what we have done is we completed an Arima garage trading system that shows a certain return, but obviously now you need to check whether this works in the live trading context, right?

Speaker 1  2:16:07  
So now, whatever we get in back testing results, right? Ultimately, the point is, how, what? What do you do between back test and live trading right now, when you talk about real implementation, when you start talking about taking something into markets or into production, it means you have to work with pipelines of data. You have to consider risk controls. You need to keep things in a way that you're able to monitor your system also, right? So there are multiple things that one has to keep in mind when you eventually start thinking of taking a strategy into live markets, right? So what are the different things that we need? So now what we did, we spent a fair amount of time trying to understand wall, predicting it, using it for position sizing and so on. In the step after you find promising results on back testing. What you need to then start thinking about is, how do you take things into production? So you start you need to start thinking about the data pipeline. So where are you going to get your fees from? Typically, this happens from your broker API, or sometimes you might sign up with a third party data vendor. You need to ensure that your data gets cleaned and validated when you start streaming it, you need to figure out backup data sources for reliability, in case your Broker API breaks, or your data vendor goes, you know, belly up, or some such right, then comes the automation of your model, right? How frequently do you want to retrain your Arima and Karch model? So suppose you're working with weekly data. You need to do it once a week, right? So at the end of each trading week, you will compute things. You look at what values you get, and you will decide to make trades and the sizes of trades based on the ARIMA Raj predictions, right? You will look at parameter monitoring and alerts. So this is also an important part. And then you will fall back to simple models. If this, if there is some issue that you face here, right? So all of this, so notice how here also, there is a backup, and here also you have created something called fallback, right? Then comes risk management, so you can create position size limits. So apart from positions for each trade, you may even want to create limits for different exposures to different assets, right? So maybe you want to limit sectoral exposure, or you may want to limit exposure to specific assets, like you don't want to be too heavy on any one asset, because if that asset gets hit badly, it will bring down or drag down your entire portfolio, right? So that all comes into risk management, so portfolio exposure limits, position size limits, and you should also keep an eye on your drawdowns, right? So if your principal is getting eroded and it comes down by a big percentage. You you will need to set some stop loss limits there too, right? You need to think about how to create the execution integration of Broker API for actual placement of orders, right? So here, also, when we talk about order placement. Sometimes people spend considerable time thinking about the execution algos, right, whether it should be limit orders, market orders, and that is a separate, I would say, subsection in strategy creation or in live trading overall, right about, how do you integrate your broker with order placements, right then you have transaction cost monitoring, so you need to keep that, you know, a close watch on that. There's also another important aspect when you talk about execution, which is to check whether the trade orders that you send are getting executed. And. If they don't, how is, how are the errors being handled? Right? So this is, again, something when we trade, we know sometimes we send a trade request, but we don't get fills in our order, right? So it either stays unfilled and expires at the end of the day or after after some time, or we have to figure out if we really want that asset, do we want to then go and place a market order for that asset, right? So that is, again, an important part. Then comes monitoring so tracking it on a daily basis. So the p&l tracking the alerts that you set up, you might want to set up alerts which come to you via email or via text messages, right? You may also want to keep a very close watch on degradation of strategies, right? So there are times, and this is a reality, that strategies have a limited lifespan, right? It's very unlikely that you will find a strategy that you will start using, and it will keep making your money till the last day you trade. Right? There will be periods when it doesn't do very well for you, and how do you detect it, and what do you do when you want to retire these strategies? So that is also something that one should keep in mind, right? So these are some very important considerations when you eventually decide to take your strategies into markets. Okay, so I'm going to take a quick look at questions. So Aditya asked, Can we look at forecast versus actual wall? Yeah, sure, Aditya, you can do that. I would encourage you to take a look at the code that I've shared here and add a couple of lines here and there to add things that like the one that you just mentioned. Dev Santosh says, I have a doubt. Arima predicts prices and stock markets are random walk. Isn't it contradictory? So dev Santosh, if the markets are truly random walks, right, then why are we in this class? Right? What's the point of doing anything related to ePAT or any such thing? So the reality is, yes, markets often display random walk properties, but they very often violate that specific you can say behavior, right? And the whole objective of trying to find strategies is to find those cases where there is some mispricing, which you are able to detect consistently and persistently, and you try to exploit it, right? So strategy, the finding of strategies, is really to find those pockets, or to find those spaces where the prices are not following a random so Shreya says, How do you test Arima three to three? Just change go and change the parameters. Shares, go and make p equal to 3d, equal to two and Q equal to three. That is a way to test Arima three to three on on the data sets that we have looked at in class today against Reyes asked, what is AIC and BIC? These are different categories of information criteria, which is to you, which are, which are kind of you can say adjudicators when you have to select from multiple competing models. So should you take an under fitted model, over fitted model and so many that come in the middle? Which of them should you choose AIC, Bic act as adjudicators or referees when you have to select from multiple models, and which one to select for your specific data set, kartikas. Will India vix be a good proxy for all privacy? Yeah, so India VIX is a pretty good proxy for volatility in general in the Indian markets, yes. But obviously this is like a it's like an index, right? Is it specific to your asset or not, that you will have to decide based on how much your asset follows the trend, right? It depends on that. Okay, so now again, let's go to the next part, in terms of implementing things that you're learning. So my advice to anyone who wants to get into serious trading is always start simple. So you should, for sure, have broker accounts. If you don't have it yet, please go ahead and open it. Do some amount of paper trading. I have written three to six months. It could be as short as even, even a month you need not wait for as long as three months or six months depends on how much you want to deploy. Right when you actually start trading, start with a small part of your capital. So if you intend to invest whatever amount work with just 10% of it or 15% of it, and try to find simple strategies that work, don't first try to find strategies in Arima or In supervised learning, or, you know, PCA and other such things. See if you can find simpler ones, the simple you create a bunch of technical analysis indicators, set up a bunch of rules. See if some somewhere you're able to spot certain patterns in back testing. If. If yes, push it into paper trading. If that looks profitable, start putting it. Start putting real money behind that. Right? Monitoring things is very important so that you're able to track the performance of a model versus the expected values that the model is supposed to give. Keep a very close watch on parameter drift over time. We did a bunch of plots here. Also right in terms of evaluating how, observing how parameters evolve, log your trades and decisions, you should have like some sort of trade book, or log book which captures, it's like a blotter, which captures all the trades that you made at prices, days, times and so on. Right? Number of trades, I mean, sorry, number of units, price of acquisition, and date and time of, you know, the sale or the purchase, right? One of the slightly boring but very, very important parts about creating strategies is to plan for failure and creating all the possible

Speaker 1  2:26:05  
lines of code to take care of the fact that somewhere, something is going to break right. Data Feed will not come order. You will not receive the data, or the data that you send to the exchange is not received by the exchange. Right? All these things happen, and what your what is your strategy supposed to do in these cases? What if the internet connection breaks? What if you know your data stops streaming right? All these things can happen so models will break. You need to create those if statements in order to have backup plans. Market conditions change so that, how do you deal with that and technical failures that I just spoke about, right? So one is creating all those exceptions. The other is sometimes being ready to manually,

Unknown Speaker  2:26:54  
have to execute certain things, right? And last, but by no means is the least is

Speaker 1  2:27:02  
your first preference, or our first priority should always be to preserve the capital that you're investing, right? So you preserve your capital over chasing performance so you risk management is really, really important here. You don't want to blow up your entire trading account in the first few weeks itself, right? Otherwise, you will be basically left licking your wounds waiting to again build capital, and then you might even have this aversion about whether to do it or not. So please keep that in mind. And yeah, I think that that is pretty important. And yeah, just a bunch of other steps that I've mentioned. So practice implementing models on different assets. Build your own data pipeline. I've mentioned about what you can do. Test strategies. Learn about model switching right. Start with small money. So if you are based out of India, maybe you start with like 50,000 rupees, 100,001 lakh rupees, start with those kind of amounts before you start looking at bigger amounts. The fact is that a lot of retailers end up losing money. So you need to think systems. You need to think test right? Everything has to be process driven and test it out. That's really the objective of whatever you're trying to do. So in terms of all the things that we've covered so far or other today, I want to mention it is what you learned today was you learned about automated parameter selection using SK time. You learned about how transaction costs can impact trading performance. We spent a lot of time talking about arch and guards, which is essentially modeling for wall. We completed an Arima guard system integration. We also, in the process, learned about, you know, estimating models in a rolling manner, how to position size based on wall. So yeah, these are, you know, all the multiple things that we talked about as far as markets go. You need discipline and you need patience, right? So my you know, advice to you would be, just keep testing. Keep working on your strategies, keep improving it. And I wish you the best for your quant trading. And you know algo trading journeys, right? So thank you very much. And before I go ahead, I'm going to again, take a quick look at questions. You

Speaker 1  2:29:50  
okay, so how do you plan for failure? So I like I mentioned, right? I've mentioned a bunch of points here. I would suggest to first. Step should be to start thinking about all things that can happen, right? What? What do you do when your connection breaks? Look at the documentation of even your broker and see what do they do when you were if you were to use the API of a broker, what do they do so you will first need to check what fail safe mechanisms they have in place, and what are the things that you want to build on top of that? Right? What software do you suggest? No, I have no specific suggestions. I don't I'll just say that some brokers have paper trading options that they give you, such as Interactive Brokers gives you an option to do paper trading. I'm merely mentioning it as a name. I'm not recommending it. Please understand that whatever I spoke about is in terms of an educational point of view. I'm not here to talk about a specific broker, all right, agrimas. How should I approach this lecture post session, as the code sometimes looks for yes, the codes can look very overwhelming. I understand Hazim, but I think you should just essentially try to wrap your head around the key ideas. Okay, and as far as the codes go, you should concentrate more on the output of the code. What is happening inside a specific block of code. That should be your approach with regard to both this lecture as well as the previous one, I think that's pretty much it with regard to all the things I wanted to talk about. So again. Thank you very much, folks. Thank you for your patience. Thank you for your time. I know we've had a pretty intense two lectures this time as well as the one a couple of weeks back, but I trust you would have understood, you know, a fair amount from this, even if you haven't, you'll need to review the material, which is also perfectly fine, because these are challenging topics. But hey, we knew what we were signing up for, right when we signed up for a course like the bread. So I know you guys are made of stern stuff, so good luck again. And thank you very much. Have a good evening. Bye, bye.

