Speaker 1  0:10  
Hazim, hello everybody, and welcome to our two sessions, actually about Python for algorithmic trading. Yeah, it's been quite a long journey. I'm not really sure when I gave this type of lecture, I must say it has changed over time considerably, for the first time, but indeed, a lot has happened in the markets, on the technology side, in particular. So it hasn't become more boring over time to the contrary, absolute contrary. It has become more and more exciting. What we can do with Python and algorithm trading. What, for example, object oriented programming plays a role in, yeah, in this whole concert, if you like. And yeah, I have redesigned this lecture. Maybe you have had access to previous lecture or followed along some others. So I have refactored, re architectured basically everything. The topics have remained the same. But I was really asking myself, How can I provide even more value to learners in the field, and this is the outcome. I hope the goal will be achieved, and you will agree on that. So about myself, I founded the Python ones, GmbH, like, like 20 years ago, with the more than 20 years ago actually, with the very goal of using and leveraging Python in the financial domain. I wasn't really sure about how this would look. Right in beginning, I tried stuff, did things, etc. But over time, of course, Python has become, yeah, stable technology in the industry. So we have come a long way. I think I've also had a little part in that by writing books, etc. So if you're interested in what we are up to these days, here you'll find the links. So just a brief overview. Our certificate in Python for finance is, yeah, one of the standard professional education programs in this context. And we just this year 2025 we have added two additional programs which complement the CPF, namely the eye engineer and the crypto engineer. The eye engineer is domain agnostic. So if somebody I don't know comes from a pharmaceutical background and knows a little bit of coding, right, then they can do this equally well as people from finance, right? So this is what we do these days, primarily training, educating, yeah, the quants and the engineers out there in AI, in crypto, and, of course, in particular, in quant finance. So if you are interested in what, yeah, others. And here by others, I mean the Google AI, this is Gemini powered. Obviously, think and say about myself, about me as a person. You can read it here, so I can agree with what is written here. It's not comprehensive. I would say I've done quite a few more things, but education and training, of course, is like at the core of what we do in my books, Python for finance and derivatives analytics. With Python, both of them now 10 years on the market, right, they have hopefully helped a large number of people, students, academics, yeah, to apply Python to the financial domain and later on. So you see it in the background here, of my recording with my video sharing here, also other books like reinforcement learning for finance, not yet there, but AI and finance, and a few more books that I have published, community advocacy, right? I feel myself since years, like an advocate for Python and finance back in the days, like so many years ago, this was my major talk that I was giving right to argue why Python is a good choice. And here, and thanks to the blessings of AI, I have a little cartoon which summarizes what I've been up for in this field. So I discovered Python as early as 2002 no idea yet what to do in finance with it. But back in the days, I had already my PhD in mathematical finance, right? So I had some rough ideas, of course, to deploy it to the financial domain. Then I founded the Python quants 20 years ago, started first steps was traveling, giving talks all over Europe, later on, Asia, in the US as well, right? And the first major milestone, so some 10 years after the fund, the founding of the company here, 10 years later, Python for finance, zip. Book doesn't look as a typical O'Reilly book, but I can live with that part, at least the title is correctly spelled. And then I started teaching at scale. So from consulting gigs with our company, etc, teaching at scale, writing books at scale, you can say I've published seven books on the topics that we are going to discuss. And here now we are. We are at the point of the intelligence and tool explosion. And for me, it's like my wife says, Oh, you're so excited. I haven't seen you that excited since a long, long while. And I am, I am right. So what AI tooling can do for us, and for us, I mean, generally speaking, and also in particular, when I speak for us, people who have the experience, who know what they are talking about, who have done it manually, right? They really, really benefit, in this regard, from what the tooling gives. So I see myself these days more like providing guidance in, yeah, the new jungle and area. And in that spirit, that's the reason why I included it here, why I had the idea while walking my dog, one of my three dogs in the morning, right? I think, well, I need to little bit provide a framework, right, why things have changed and what we do and how we do it, and why we do it the way we do it, right? So this hopefully gives you a little bit of background. So for me, it's 20 years and still it's getting more and more exciting. You can't imagine, right? This is really a wonderful time, if you want to see what I'm also up to. So one of my hobbies is physics, and a few other topics that you can discover on my personal webpage, feel free to go there. All the papers and books that are listed there are free to download, right?

Speaker 1  6:43  
So coming to our topic itself, right? We have quite a bit on the agenda, but this time around, I said it a couple of times. I've changed the whole approach a lot. So there is now an accompanying companion article, which provides you basically with all the details for you as reference, right? So I have given, I don't know, four times a year this double lecture, and given the questions from people attending the lectures. Right? We drifted in one direction. We drifted maybe, in another direction. So the core topics have stayed the same, but sometimes the emphasis was more on that topic. Sometimes time was not enough in order to cover everything. So I thought now to provide the framework and then still have the flexibility to focus a bit more or to stay a bit longer on certain topics because you have, quote, unquote, the full reference anyways, right? Even just like saying this won't be the case, but if we would skip the topic event based back testing framework, you would still have, like, the full reference in the form of the article and here on the in the slide deck, right? So, having said that, I will come back to my ideas with regard to that approach, and would be glad to receive feedback in this context for sure, after a brief introduction, what we are up to content wise, right? I want to discuss, and this was tradition previously, as well efficient markets and random walks, and what we are basically up to when we speak of algorithmic trading, right? Because algorithmic trading, in and of itself, if we have in mind Alpha generating trading strategy, right, is about beating the markets Simply speaking, right? And there is not that much empirical support for many of the major financial theories, but for the efficient market hypothesis, there is a ton of support. So this is what we are up against. That's our benchmark. Are we able, by one means or another, really, to come up with something that is worthwhile being implemented and and having capital allocated to right then a little bit of Python infrastructure. Of course, we need it, but, yeah, this long way that we have come to right is leading to a situation that we in algorithmic trading to go the basic steps. Can live with the absolute standard tools, just to name like the three major ones, NumPy pen as a matplotlib tool wise, right? We can also include, for example, Jupiter lab, let's say, right? This is what we are going to do, or I will use collab, for example, right in the browser. But the packages is not that we need to set up an environment with, like, a gazillion of packages. This might be the case, depending on specific use cases, but for what we are up to, that's not the case, then we will cover the mathematical foundations for back testing and. Will then, yeah, build the bridge, wire vectorized best back testing of an ordinarily squares based strategy to object oriented programming for quant finance, right? Without a background, it's difficult, I think, to appreciate what the benefits of the OOP paradigm are, right? And I want to introduce it rather from a financial point of view than just like saying, well, here this is a class, this is a method, this is an attribute. This is data classes. This is, this is that there are a gazillion of resources in this regard, available on the web, in book form, blog post, whatever. So here specifically, why in quant finance, and what we can do with OOP in this context. So one of the major topics here is event based back testing, right? This is, yeah, improving upon the vectorized back testing approach, and that it gives us much more flexibility and moves us closer to the markets, right? So you can think here, of all of this, what we are going to do as a journey where we would say, Well, we start with the theory, right? What is kind of like the theoretical framework, what we are up against, what have great thinkers written down about markets and how they behave, that we cover the basics in math, right? And then we move onwards with vectorized back testing. We try, for the first time, our hands on strategy, trying to beat the market, right? But this is not yet realistic in terms of how markets work, right? This is simple and intuitive and pretty, pretty useful, don't get me wrong, but it cannot do the trick, right? So if you are pretty young and you need to walk from A to B, this is okay. Then one day, you learn how to ride a bike, and you are much faster, right? Then you might go on a mobile, as we say in German, right, on a motorcycle, later on, maybe a car. So you're getting better and better, right? And this is what we what I try here to do as well in terms of a journey getting closer and closer to the markets. We won't close in to the markets in a sense of having live trades place, but where we look forward here event based brings us close to market realities. Real Time is another element right from static data sets that we maybe digest step by step to something that is streaming in real time, right? And once we have done so, yeah, we will revisit efficient markets. And yeah, think about what it all means. And last but not least, we can discuss what you think and what I would conclude given what we have covered. So that's quite a bit. It is, I wouldn't say, a full journey through Python for algorithmic trading, but it covers very, very important and interesting topics. So speaking of the interesting topics, from discretionary to algorithmic trading, there is probably a reason why you are attending such a program and today's session, right? You have an idea of maybe one day, what you do so already deploy something that is acting like a bot, or, as we say these days, more often, as an agent in the markets, and the ideal outcome would be, yeah, the agent is making money even while you are asleep, right? So back in the day is the only option we had were like reading the newspapers, picking up the phone and placing orders by phone and waiting for the confirmation by our broker. So these days are over, right? But this is not really meant like here taking a call, right here by traditional trading, when you see, like, discretionary decisions, right? Even if you have, like a computer and you have live data feeds, right? People, day traders sit there and make up their mind and then implement what they think is currently the best position to take. For example, there are informal rules of thumb, or there are there are maybe some strategies that have proven useful in the past that with regard to patterns or whatnot, right? Algorithmic trading, on the other hand, has explicit rules that we can write down in a mathematical way as well as and we need to be clear, grateful for that in code, in Python code, right? We will have hopefully back, tested it, thoroughly honest. Oracle data, and then we deploy it somewhere in the cloud and communicate with the landforms right research and productions. Usually we would do something like notebook interactive development for exploration that we might move this to scripts right, and later on, we build services on top of that, right? And here our aim is, you see, there are quite a few elements involved, right? There is math involved, there's finance involved, there's coding involved, right? To connect all these elements in a consistent way with each other, right? That's the major aim here, when you want to transgress from discretionary to algorithmic trading. This is simply something that is required in order to replace intuition by something that is data driven, where you use code, data and infrastructure as your major tools instead of intuition. I'm not saying that this cannot work, but if you are here today, probably you're interested in doing

Speaker 1  16:05  
the automated act here, right? So the role of Python right? Python acts as a central connective tissue between all the single elements, data, right, signals, research, documentation, logging, monitoring, like all these tasks, right? This is where Python comes into play. So we start maybe with some exploration, importing data, visualizing data, right? But later on, once we have it in the cloud and running, maybe even HFT co located at the exchange, right? This is a different game than just exploratory analysis, but nevertheless, Python can support us, maybe not, with everything for typical HFT core elements, Python is usually too slow then you would go to C, C Plus Plus rust or whatever, right? So Jupyter Notebooks, right the back testing engine, what we are going to do still has to a very large extent, I would say, an interactive, ad hoc feel to it, right? Because it's for teaching purpose, right, and illustration purposes, right? But if you work on something like this for a longer time, you can build your own library, your own package, and you have your own tools available. Like every master craftsman has their own tools and techniques, processes, practices, right that have proven useful, right? We will also leverage Python in such a context as glue code, right? Instead of, let's say, for example, a bash script, right? And other stuff that is like, yeah, supporting the core functionality and Python, this is where it all started, basically before we got into the other areas is simply very well suited for fast iteration on new ideas before according to lower level stacks, right? You rather write 10 lines of Python code, with which you might achieve already a lot. If you get started implementing C code or rust code with 10 lines, probably you will not get equally far, right? So, yeah, the article and the book, the article that I have shared to which you have access, the link should have been sent out with the invent invitations here, right? This is a compliment, complimentary paper. So to say to my original book, Python for algorithmic trading, from which I in particular have, like the steps, right? So it's a process oriented view. The subtitle of the book is from idea to cloud employment, right? So it's from the very first idea. We are getting clear what I'm interested in, and then later on, having an agent, a bot to would say, or a script and algo running in the cloud. So for more details in particular minute, maybe Python stuff, you can have a look at it. But I must say it was written like six years ago was published, or seven years ago published six years Oh, the first, the first iteration. I was wrong, the first iteration of the book was already finished in 2017 of course, it was updated. And on the GitHub repo you will find updated code, but yeah, we have come a long way, right? And even the published version from 2020 that's basically what I wanted to say would need an upgrade. Basically, this week, I was discussing with my acquisition editor at O'Reilly whether we should do a second edition for that book. So time has come, we have more to say. And this article here now is not just given what was in the book. This is like updated with new stuff, new approaches. And so forth, right? So when I was, for example, I noted it right. Let's just get, let me get back here to this overview here. When I was founding the company, there was no python three around, right here. Python print was not a function. Print was a statement. So this is like code that was not executable back when I was founding the company. So, yeah, so many signs here that we are progressing, and to me, at least, it feels like progressing at ever higher speeds, right? So we emphasize here fish markets, when walks vector, Hazim and best back testing, streaming and serum q1, of the major topics that we won't touch our platforms themselves, how to connect to the platforms. Why API's how to play straights and automation in the cloud, right? So these are the two out of seven elements that we are not covering. So here clean research workflows, consistent abstractions across research. Also what I was teaching in the past, that I was mentioning is here now, yeah, presented in a coherent, I hope so at least, and

Unknown Speaker  21:09  
consistent manner

Speaker 1  21:12  
for you to rely on these resources. So we are dealing with three layers, like finance. It's important and finance, in turn, relies on math, right? Mathematical Finance, with my PhD in people would say, Yeah, this is basically applied mathematics, right? And if you, if you take away the explanatory text from the mathematical finance one finance books, right, and just leave the equations and everything. Yeah, this could be physics. Could be this could be that, right? So this applies in particular, and that's the reason why, back in the days they were called rocket scientists on Wall Street, right? This, yeah, relies heavily on methods first deployed applied in physics. Mathematics, therefore, is the key element, and programming is our means of communicating, of implementing, of running the stuff that otherwise would stick just on pen and paper or on paper and here in PDFs, right? So robust strategies, that's an hypothesis. I hope you share that as well, emerge when these layers are aligned, rather than treated in isolation. So this all must fit well together, right? We cannot ignore one for the sake of the other, etc, right? That's not the case. So here you see it once again in the overview. Right? We have finances, of course. What we are concerned with the EMH Efficient Market Hypothesis, plus the trading rules. This is at the core of algorithmic trading, but we need to also have the mathematical modeling tool set in order to model random walks, implement regression and all that other stuff. And Python then comes along and provides us with NumPy, for example, the functions to implement OLS regression, the functions to simulate random walks, pandas to process data, our op to architect basically what we want to implement, right? So mutually reinforcing layers here, that's basically what this is all about. We cannot achieve any meaningful goal in algorithmic trading if we neglect one of the three. So roadmap here, for my talk, for my lectures, here, close the introduction. First efficient markets are in walks. It's so, so important to have this as a framework and as a baseline, right, because everything else must be judged against this baseline, right? Then three to five. The basic setup here, for the math that we need, and the vectorized back testing, right? I will use zero, yes, dollar. We will see why as well. So I did it in the past as well. But here I provide you here with the written arguments. Usually I was transporting it just verbally, right? And maybe if you have followed along and listened to the lectures, you might have forgotten why I was using, for example, euros dollar in the first place, right? So, and traditionally, this was more or less like the the first lecture, and then the rest the second lecture. But we will see how far we come and where we want to focus on more. If there are specific questions, where I should go deeper and so forth, right? So we start with efficient markets. Once we are through, we should revisit and say, yeah, what does it mean? Now? All right, this is the villain here in our in our story. And yeah, how does it look? Do we have a chance to overcome the power of the villain? We will see. We will see, of course, we will discuss key takeaways there as well. Right? It's. So efficient markets and random walks, sometimes people use this in a same context, so can be used one way or the other, but mathematically speaking and from a conceptual point of view, the two are different, right? But we would see exactly now with the formalism, and this is where, yeah, the the three elements come into play, right? When we say, well, we have finance, and what you see here is like on the finance level, but we might need math to see differences here, right? So math is helpful to clarify things that might not be too clearly, to fully express with words

Unknown Speaker  25:48  
only, right?

Speaker 1  25:51  
So efficient markets as a benchmark. So maybe, if you have studied this or have read about it, I'm always interested in your opinion, what do you think in terms of efficient markets, random walks as a model for stock prices? Let's say in 2025

Speaker 2  26:11  
right last month, 2025 if you fancy, go ahead and maybe write a couple of comments here in the chat. I will be interested in hearing reading about your opinion in this regard.

Speaker 1  26:28  
So vision, market hypothesis is not something where we would say, Yeah, efficient market hypothesis says X, Y, that we fully agree with that, right? There is also a lot of empirical support, therefore we won't discuss algorithmic trading, nor Python applied to algorithmic trading, right? So that's that could be an outcome, right? If we say, yeah, yeah, I'm a firm believer in efficient market hypothesis. I'm a big believer in low transaction cost, passive investing, fine, but then the rest here in the article and or here in the slide deck is then irrelevant. I think that's perfectly agreeable for 99.5% of the population. At least they should go that way, right? There are popular and interesting books. Maybe I should add the this reference as well, because these are just original papers right here. But I could add this famous book, A Random Walk Down Wall Street, right which argues, yeah, that markets are largely efficient, therefore, basically everyone, for example, saving for retirement or for the education of their kids or whatever, should go the passive route and minimize transaction costs and go with the broader market. So that's a book of multiple 100 pages. In my brief summary here, right?

Speaker 2  28:05  
So that's, I don't know this is like, sorry for that, but this makes me a bit nervous that

Speaker 1  28:10  
here you can see that, but the Zoom panel is always showing up here, going back, showing up. I don't know why this is here, the case anyways. So that's a technical topic. We have three basic papers that I mentioned here, pharma in the 60s. Stock prices behave approximately like random walk. So past price changes do not provide systematic forecasting power. So in other words, and usually, that's the point

Speaker 2  28:40  
where I open, let me go to wonder that's usually the easiest,

Unknown Speaker  28:45  
or I don't, I don't basically,

Speaker 2  28:49  
I don't basically need it. Let me just close it. I have open your workspace right here,

Unknown Speaker  28:59  
terminal from refinitive nseg, right? So let me open a chart

Speaker 2  29:08  
here, your yes dollar is shown here, right? And the

Speaker 1  29:15  
basic idea of random walk hypothesis is that of all of this data right? You see, I can zoom in when I've zoomed in enough. There's just one data point, left, right, and random walk to run the walk hypothesis, and to a larger extent, EMH as well, says that the knowledge of this last data point here, which is 1.1642 right? Is equal, equal to knowing the whole history, right? So that markets are Markov, right? Everything that what what was in the past is reflected in the current here is not a stock. Rise here, it's in the exchange rate, right? So that's what random walks are about. Therefore, if we would do something like charting, right? I don't know here, I can add Bollinger Bands, for example, right? Or I can add whatever here, MACD, this is added down here. All of this addition, right, is meaningless from the point of view of the random walk. Slash, currently I use it synonymously as well. Hypothesis right, knowledge of the last price is simply the only thing that is relevant, right? No matter how much I zoom in, zoom out, right? The whole history, 10 years, 10 months, 10 days, intraday, end of day, end of month, whatever, right? But we all know there are so so many people, so so many people sitting every day, on everyday basis, in front of their charts for multiple hours and try to read something from the markets, right? So in the original article, you can read basically that all these Chartist procedures are point and worthless, right? So Jensen, in 78 added another perspective. He first introduced the notion of an information set right, a set of data today we could think of, yeah, a big database with a lot of data right, mathematically speaking, that's an information set right. And he says that markets are efficient if with respect to such an information set, if no trading rule based solely on that information can earn persistent, rich, risk adjusted excess profits. So there are quite a few conditions here, right? Persistent, which means long term or medium term, at least, right? Risk adjusted and excess profits above some benchmark that's already a decent and a much more mathematically inspired idea then Timor Granger is a must read. You must Google that paper if you haven't read it. That's a absolute must read. Timoman and Granger 2004 about the efficiency here, where they say that it depends on the information set, S, yes, but it is dependent on time, the search technology T and the model class M, available at time t. So here they, among other things, explicitly include changes in technology over time. We would all agree that 60 years back, right? We have 2025, 1965, 60 years back, technology was quite different, right? Nobody was talking about llms, not even about proper PCs or MacBooks or iPads or you name it, cloud. Nothing was there, right? So here, yeah, technology has there is no doubt, nobody would ever doubt, it has changed dramatically over time, and even since 2004 it has further changed, right? So here we for our purposes, we wouldn't say, Yeah, markets are efficient. We stopped talking about

Unknown Speaker  33:21  
anything yet, right?

Speaker 1  33:27  
But we should rather say EMH, right. Is a moving target, right? So there's always new data. We have different search tools, right? We have models that we can come up with for example, right? So therefore it's constantly redefined what no free lunch means, right? But we should keep in mind that this is one of the cornerstones of traditional finance, which has basically the most empirical support, right? So therefore, for us algorithmic traders who want to beat the market a pretty, pretty important aspect of our work and journey, right? So now random walk models for prices and returns, right, to make EMH concrete, right? We start from a simple random walk model. So we have a stock price today and the price tomorrow is the price today, plus some white noise, for example, right where we have and that's one of the characteristics of white noise that the expectation of that noise given information today is zero. So we say, well, there are pluses, there are minuses, whatever. But on average, right? We have a zero, then we have the lock returns that we can calculate here, right, RT plus one is lock. St plus one over T, and we can hear. To put this into two terms, right, where we have a, yeah, a drift, right, mu, this is like, for those of you have studied black schools, option pricing, right? This will be the drift of simulated geometric, Brownian motion. And then we have some other noise that comes to it, right? This is just saying here that, oops, I was too fast. This just saying that we have, yeah, something that goes systematically up, and I think that's a good model, good approximation for stock prices, right? But even if it on average goes out, we don't know what like the noise is around it, right, under such assumptions, right, in a least square sense, and you will find it in my other notebooks and the slide tags that I used before, etc, in a similar manner, right? Maybe not exactly the same, but I'm preaching this message for so long now, right? The best focus and the least square sense of st plus one given ft, which means all the information today is just st, right? Here, of course, if this is zero the noise right, then we should take st as our expectation, right? There is no predictable alpha from past prices alone. So we put here, as you can see, this on mathematical footing, instead of just talking about right? This here is talk. This is in papers. These papers, they have also their math. And here we see now a tiny bit of the math that is used there, right? So these models are not realistic in every detail, but they are a benchmark for us, right? That's for us, something where we can always get back and say, Are we better than something like this is the time series that we are working with of this type or not. So we should keep this firmly in our head. So for the first time, a little bit of Python here, right? This simulates a random walk. Pretty simple, pretty straightforward. And to be honest, when I started, I told you, more than 20 years ago, with Python, Monte Carlo simulation was the very first use case I tried my hands on right? I wanted to value because it was just a new paper published in 2001 I wanted to value American options with early exercise by the use of Monte Carlo simulation and in 2001 long stop wards. I think it was, in any case, it was Schwarz I'm not. There have been a couple of papers that have been working with for my PhD, and later on, yeah, it was long Schwartz, because the algorithm is called LSM, but not for long stock Schwartz, but for least squares, Monte Carlo algorithm, right where you need a couple of tricks in order to value American options based on simulation. So over the last, I would say, 1015, years, this whole approach hasn't changed that much. NumPy has become better. NumPy has gotten recently, a new random number generator syntax here and there. Has changed a little bit. But overall, since the introduction of NumPy, this has been more or less the standard of how we do things right. And you find all the code, and maybe that's a good point. Now to hint at the GitHub repository, you should have received a link to the Git Hub repo as well. And here in code, you find all the, all the single Python scripts that are a for illustration, that's a given and B, often they generate figures that you will see and see, of course, they are for your study and where you can work with right. You see here it's much more elaborate with the plotting and everything as compared to what we see on the slide deck. Right? The slide deck gives you the gist of it here for the simulation, right? So that's here on the slide deck, but you have here the full script with everything in there that you can rely on, right? So, for your reference, and maybe you want to change things, you want to play with the parameters,

Unknown Speaker  39:29  
etc, right?

Speaker 1  39:33  
So maybe I'm a little bit I was wondering whether nobody has ever put something into the the chat that's here. That's the reason why I haven't opened here the Q

Unknown Speaker  39:49  
and A right, wonderful.

Speaker 1  39:52  
Now I have everything inside, you know, I need to when I present in the middle, I need everything else here in a different. In place now it is now it is put in here, right? Yeah, wonderful things here, adaptive market hypothesis,

Unknown Speaker  40:16  
subjective element here, yeah, I can get

Speaker 1  40:23  
back to that one. No, m, m is model. So model, it's somebody was asking here a question about the M in the definition here, right? A model class. This is nothing about subjective. Maybe you could say this is whether you believe in a model or not, right? But this is not meant here, right? This is simply saying that we have different models. Getting back to my option pricing theory, right? We have started basically with Flex coals Merton in the 70s. What we have had publications in particular in this area in the 90s that have been a major advancement of the original modeling approaches, right? So m here stands for availability of models, right? Yeah, all nice, nice expressions and definitions here for efficient market hypothesis. Yeah, it's exactly that saying it's not possible to make gains over normal market growth, right? Not possible. Might not be right. We should always think in terms of probabilities, right? You will always find the lucky people. You will always find the crypto billionaire, right? That's a given thing, right, but you need to judge whether it's one of 10,000 crypto billionaires, or whether it is the one outlier that you are talking to you so somebody is asking for the for the link, right? And all the information, including the password to the documents, should have been shared with you upfront, so maybe the usually so wonderful, helpful team of ePad can share the links before

Unknown Speaker  42:06  
I type them out here and relate them. So I was informed.

Speaker 2  42:18  
I was informed that you have received basically everything, which means three links and the password as well.

Speaker 1  42:29  
Yeah, you have received an email this week. The announcement, wonderful. So somebody is pointing out, and I would to some extent agree that information technology a model serve as a basis of differentiation, right? So this is what is more or less in here. So the big hedge funds, they try to get their hands on different data sets, alternative data. They build large server farms and high speed Tech Tech right next to the exchange. They try to develop new model classes, right? But if you to 100% believe in that, that it's just like the differentiating factor, then there would be a corollary, which would say, yeah, the more money I throw at it, the better I will become. Meaning that we retail people, we retail traders, will never stand a chance. So it's also about niche and about other topics that we will come to in a minute, also liquidity, for example, in this but everything, but basically,

Unknown Speaker  43:32  
I can agree to more or less what is pointed out here, right?

Speaker 1  43:42  
Yeah. Real markets have fear, greed and panic selling. But the question is, when you name this now, how would you predict this? How would you leverage something like this? Right? You can believe in animal spirits, as they call it, right, that people behave irrationally and act like in panic, etc. But how would you predict a stock market crash? Right? There are people walking around and being interviewed on Bloomberg or and CNBC all year round and saying the next crash is coming. The next crash is coming. If you say it every week, right, then there will be a week where you have been, right, right? So I agree with what you point out, but next step that you must go is, how can I benefit from my from my belief, right, that markets are not efficient because this and that is kind of like the case, therefore I might be able to find my niche and make systematic money. So with the code here minimal example, you can simulate this. And these are random walks, right? There is no proper visualization in and of itself for the efficient market hypothesis. This is much. More abstract, right? The efficient market hypothesis, but random walks here, right? Looks like Brownian motion with almost normally distributed sampled lock returns, right? So now one additional consideration, and for you, I'm grateful that so many of you have shared your have shared your views on efficient market hypothesis. So this shows me that you have thought about it, you know it right, and that you hopefully are reminded of it when you do your back testing, right? But how, for example, now do we test for predictability in and of itself, right? So I have read a couple and I have reread a couple of comments before that. Yeah, markets might be efficient, but there is this and that, and even more so strange things going on in the markets, right? But we, if that's the case, we should somehow be able to discover this, right? This is what is the research is all about, right? If you believe in it, you must think in the next step, how can I figure out whether this is the case and here, without going to any simple single argument, right, there is a standard consideration here about linear predictability, right? We can probe efficiency by asking whether returns show statistically significant linear predictability from their own past values, right? So this is, in principle, what we want to do. I was showing it before, right here, I have it still open. If we believe that looking back in time and using bollinger bands and MACD indicators and whatnot has a value. We must have some means to judge whether there is indeed a value and a simple General Test. Maybe I'll leave it here and just put it in the background, a simple test here for general linear predictability with regard to past realizations, here is given by the autocorrelation. Right? The population. Autocorrelation, population means here sample data right at like k is the correlation between it. Just think of here k being one, today's return and yesterday's return, right? Or in the other direction, today's return and tomorrow's

Unknown Speaker  47:46  
return, right?

Speaker 1  47:49  
So that's here, the idea. But we can also look back 10 days, five days, 15 days, right? This should be close to zero in an ideal random walk world, right? So sample auto correlations outside of confidence, band signal potential departures from the EMH. So, oh, we have learned now something where we can, yeah, discover situations where EMH might be violated, and we can explore this idea then here in a controlled way, by simulating returns with and without autoregressive structure and comparing their empirical autocorrelation. So this is happening here now in the code, and I want to highlight here the major parameter right. We have here row right, and row is by default, set to zero, right. Row is set to zero, right? So what does it mean? Yeah, when we said row to zero, we can forget about this term here, right? And then the return at time t is simply something here apps, that's a random value, right? So these are here random elements, and if rho is zero, there is no non random element that is left, right? So in this case, this is a pure random walk, no chance to predict something that random, right? But if we set row here to another value, right, to point five, or point 2.9, for example, right, then we have that the return on T is, let's say point five, the return from the previous day, plus something random, then we have suddenly a structure, right, a structure that can be exploited. And when I'm saying stuff like this here, you should have a look at the code, EMH, Efficiency Task where you can use the code, leverage the code, and. And play with it. So EMH efficiency. So this is here, ordered alphabetically by default,

Speaker 2  50:09  
right there you see, again, simulate returns. And this is here,

Speaker 1  50:13  
row right autoregressive parameter. Row zero corresponds to serially independent returns. Row greater than zero introduces positive autocorrelation. Could also be negative, right? Nobody forbids this here, from a technical point of view. There we calculate here the autocorrelation values, ACF. There's also a standard functionality available. Here it is implemented step by step. And here the plotting you see as so often in these contexts, interactive context, the plotting code is, yeah, a little bit longer than the than the very code about the autocorrelation itself, right? So, and once we have studied this, and I've had a look at it right we see, then here the approximate efficient situation where we have, this is not measured. This is by default. We have set a row to zero for this case, right here. And you see within this band, I don't know if this is visible, because this is light gray and this is darker gray, maybe I should put some lines or something in there. Here, for me, it's visible, but not to buy a contrast with between these two colors. So here is like positive negative values for the autocorrelation or within confidence band, right? So in approximately efficient market sample, auto correlations of return should mostly stay within a statistical noise band, right? This is this darker gray band, right? Persistent deviations suggest exploitable structure or misspecification. So yeah, maybe we have done something wrong and not the market. So here see now predictable AR, well, we have said, Oh, I used examples of point 5.9 here it is set in a numerical example, 2.3 and we see that we have here a outlier. In this particular context, and outlier, because the values are autocorrelated, and we see that this persists here over the lags, because every step here has a positive autocorrelation, right? Therefore here we see only positive ones for the first eight, then it's zero, then it's getting slightly negative, where the noise is like dominating the whole thing,

Speaker 1  52:56  
not necessarily positive. Other correlation doesn't mean necessarily trending, because we have the noise factor right. But overall, we could say that right, when you do your math with regard to your argument, right, you have a, let's say plus 1% and then on the next day, let's say we have a high autocorrelation of point nine that we would have plus point nine, and then the noise added to it, right? So in this case, most, most, most, most, probably it will go up, up, up, up, right. Therefore, there is something that we can say is training, but it depends on the parameterization and and how high the autocorrelation is, meaning, on average, most probably, yes. But in practice, you will see derivations from that as well, like we have with the with the random walk, where we have different observations over time and multiple elements. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. That's somebody says, Can we say that when autocorrelation is not equal to zero means market is not fully efficient? Yeah, because we can judge something, we cannot be perfect, right again, have here the look at rho is the correlation factor, right here, right there is the whole expression, right? When rho is non zero, right? We and we have measured that due to regression or whatever right and what we know r t minus one, and then have measured the non zero row. We have some predictable power there. But once again, we have always this noise factor included, therefore it has nothing to do with perfect. Predictability. But I don't think that we are really after perfect predictability, but it is something that we can exploit in a statistical

Unknown Speaker  55:09  
sense, right,

Speaker 1  55:14  
signal to noise ratio, not really. Here we are doing a regression based approach, simply right.

Speaker 2  55:20  
AR stands for auto regressive, right? Yeah, ar, auto regression, right?

Speaker 2  55:35  
Thing makes me nervous. Sorry for that. I don't know. I don't know where to move. I want to simply

Speaker 1  55:46  
this is, I'm sorry. I mean, this is, like this zoom thing. Whenever somebody posts a question, this thing pops up and goes back, pops up and goes back. And I think something is happening, not your problem, but it's like a technical thing that is somehow messing up with my focus and concentration. Right difference between efficient versus predictable is outlier? Yeah, outliers. What is outliers? I use the word outlier just in the context here of this chart. And by outlier, maybe it's not the right word is right that this is above here the the statistical noise band, right? This is large and exploit these are, we would say, close to zero, therefore we can neglect them. This is so large in relation and absolute terms that we cannot neglect it. So in that sense, if you mean here in this context where I mentioned it, yeah, then we can speak of some form of predictability here, right? Absolutely, when we talk about exploitable structure, at least in a statistical sense, right? Nobody is talking about any economic topics yet, like transaction costs, let's say, or other important elements, right? But this is basically an indicator that there might be some arbitrage opportunity, right, some exploitable structure, right?

Speaker 1  57:29  
Yeah, this model. I mean, if somebody is asking, how does this and that factor in this model basically only wire data, because the model is so simple and straightforward, there is not that much to say about the model, right? The model has no consciousness. The model has not that many elements. It's a simple auto correlation between two data points, right? It cannot get basically any more simple, right? Therefore, this model doesn't really factor in big deviations, or panic selling or whatnot, right? We just have the data, and if the data can be interpreted in that way, then we have it included. Otherwise, the model itself doesn't include something like this, right? The model is simple and straightforward, two numbers that we try to combine in a in a consistent way. Maybe we are lucky and can exploit what we figure out by doing so here sometime very predictable behavior. Yeah, this is then maximally we can say where our parameters, and we have just one parameter here, changes over time, where we have here, maybe a situation from that kind here, and we move to a situation, right? This can, of course, be the case here. We have like two scenarios, but this could also be interpreted as two different regimes or times right within the same market.

Speaker 1  59:10  
Somebody's asking about a perfect market, who? What do you mean by a perfect market? Me as coming from option pricing. For me, a perfect market means infinite liquidity, instantly. Instant information transmission means no transaction cost means symmetric information. That's what I understand, and you can read it in my PhD thesis from 25 years ago. This is what quant finance people understand on the perfect market, but I'm not sure, given our discussion here, what do you mean by perfect market? So I have talked about this chart now quite a while. You should go, yeah, here, for example, what kind of strategies we are not talking about strategies we are just talking. About, generally speaking, predictability. But a simple strategy here to make one example, if we have that we have measured over large data sets, a row of point three, right? This would mean that if we observe that when the market goes up, the return is positive, then we would go long because the probability for another positive return is higher than for one, than for one, where we don't observe something like this, right? Yeah, I mean, basically, just apply the code that I've shared with you, apply it to any type of market data, and you will see in 99.9% of the cases a chart like this. So given this little test, you would conclude that basically all, let's say, to make it specific, end of day time series in the market that we can get from the markets are efficient. That's simply what we would conclude there, right? Maybe you find some noteworthy exceptions, and you might want to share them with us, right? So speaking of finding, yeah, what does finding entails? Yeah, this entails, usually, having a data set available, right? Working with the data set and, yeah, doing what the purpose of the exercise is. Therefore, we need some infrastructure. So for me these days, right? I am a big fan, the meantime of Google colab, right? And maybe I'll leave it open here, and I can use colab here in the browser, right? And I can work with here Python and gazillion of packages. I'm not even aware of all the packages that are there, but there's, for example, pytorch for CUDA, etc, right? But when we have something like import NumPy S and P, import pandas SPD, right? So we have already two of the noteworthy packages, right and the URL here for the data set that I have created a week ago, bit more than a week ago, when I was starting to prepare. I don't know what this is here, data Chipotle, that stopped my data set. What I created a new data set that we can work with right iPad. It's not called data. It's called ePad, EOD.

Speaker 2  1:02:51  
I'm not sure whether I put it here. Let me see, I'm not even sure whether I've put it on the server, but if not, so let me maybe do this in a second, but let me first try. So I'm not sure whether I

Speaker 1  1:03:10  
know where to access it, but here, since I'm working in the cloud, I need to access it from someplace else, right URL. And let me just quickly check.

Speaker 2  1:03:22  
Well, it's not found, so let me copy it as takes

Speaker 2  1:03:33  
me two more seconds to copy it to my server and

Unknown Speaker  1:03:46  
so now let me try that trick again,

Speaker 1  1:03:53  
and I have now the data set that I have specifically prepared for you guys. So you see the last data point here is 28 of November, just one week ago, and it goes back 10 years. So we have 10 years worth of data, right? So there is a date column, so would usually set here index call

Speaker 2  1:04:19  
first one parse dates true, and we would collect the raw data here, right,

Speaker 1  1:04:30  
so that we have it for later reference. Right? When I set here the symbol to

Speaker 2  1:04:38  
euro, US dollars, so that I can change it. I can example, what now symbol, symbol here, and we can inspect

Unknown Speaker  1:04:55  
our data set. You see this has like

Speaker 2  1:04:58  
holds in the Times. Series, right? So they are like dates where we have no data. We can also go with Apple, for example,

Speaker 1  1:05:11  
I will get that one. Usually, what I would do is

Speaker 2  1:05:14  
here from Pylab, import PLT, and can do it here as well. Style, use

Speaker 1  1:05:27  
semen. That's my house style. It's actually not my style, but I use distance. I think 10 years the old seaborne style with the crit and the gray background. So that's what I'm used to, right? So that's the data that we have. And with this data, we can do,

Speaker 2  1:05:49  
we can do some things. For example, I mean, we can check for I don't need here, Gemini for the time being, right? I

Speaker 2  1:06:07  
we can check, for example, the correlation right here, correlation coefficient between, let me go, let me pick here time series raw, just to keep the other code more simple, right values, So correlation coefficient and with the time series, right the I go from one until the very end and Ts,

Speaker 1  1:07:00  
we see here with regards to the prices. So here we talk about prices, right the that's, if you like, a short, a very short, short shortcut for something that we have had on the slide before, namely, here that here, under this assumption, the best forecast in least square sense of st plus one given ft is just St. And this is what the code here says, right? You see that if I shift the time series by one day, I have a correlation of 0.999 right? So therefore using today's price for as the forecast, as the predictor for tomorrow's price is like the best I can do. I won't find anything else, right? If I might be shifting this for more days, right? Might not work that well, but this is here the case with regard to the prices. So we need to differentiate always when we deal with these quantities, price and returns right on the slide deck here. This is about prices, right? But then suddenly we are already on the return side. And the discussion of the auto regression here, correlation, right? This is related to returns, not to prices, right? And here we are also dealing with return. So here it's all random numbers, right? All random numbers, right? And there have been, therefore I'm going now a little bit to the code here, the lags. Here, right? This is where we would say, Yeah, market is efficient. There is no linear predictability. Yeah. Here we could conclude that somehow inefficient. Maybe we can exploit this. Maybe I say, right, there's no guarantee for that, but we can do now the calculation, but we need to first go with with the calculation here of T, of the return series, this would be t, s, here we see it already. It knows already what I want to do. That's that's pretty interesting, right? This is like when I show you this. This gives us now the returns, right? Daily returns are typically quite small, right? Here you see it like minus 0.000, so we are dealing not with 100 150 just relatively small values. And now I want to do the same autocorrelation. This is now. This is here, with my goodness, all these other replacements. This is price series data

Speaker 2  1:09:53  
that I'm used right highly. I. Are correlated. So prices are highly correlated. But now we can do the same

Speaker 1  1:10:08  
analysis here with a return series, right that we have now, and I can, more or less Let me copy this so that we have it here as a blueprint. I now go with Rs, obviously, my returns here and

Speaker 2  1:10:26  
here, the returns, returns

Speaker 1  1:10:31  
series, right? And you see this is relatively small, negatively correlated, right? So small, negative. I would say here, this is roughly zero and this is what this chart here says, right? Maybe 0.05 right. You see this band here goes to point nine or something, right? This is here point three, but my result here is 0.05 it's not 0.5 or something. And we can do this exercise with other because somebody was saying, which market satisfy like this. This idea here, we can change it to

Unknown Speaker  1:11:16  
what, what are our let me, let me check this is a new data set.

Speaker 2  1:11:24  
Columns we have Nvidia, maybe we go with gold. GLD, right. GLD, symbol here. GLD. This is now an ETF.

Speaker 1  1:11:39  
And what do we know, yeah, here in particular, 2025 but also to 2024 gold has gone through the roof, right? So, just another time series here. I do the same transformation. These numbers are basically the same, right? 0.9999 so this holds true for gold as well. Here we have now the returns. And here I would maybe not, maybe it's not the case. But even although this is here highly trending or whatnot, No, we cannot really conclude there the autocorrelation is basically zero by basically zero. You know what I mean, rounding down to zero or up to zero here, right? We can also go with other lags, for example, right, like moving this up and down. But usually this is, therefore it is the famous model, the AR one, meaning that we have a look at the last available data point.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:02  
Let me see, there's so many.

Speaker 1  1:13:06  
Yeah, here I cannot use the light background. I'm sorry for that. This is simply Google colab. At least, I don't know where to switch this to light

Unknown Speaker  1:13:15  
background. I'm sorry. So that's I

Speaker 1  1:13:24  
I've never even tried it. Maybe, maybe one can do that. Maybe you know where I do it or not. I don't know. I personally work all the time with dark background. So if somebody knows where to turn on light background here, or light mode instead of dark mode. Yeah, let me know.

Speaker 2  1:13:43  
So here, think I've answered that big shocks, regime changes and heavy Tails can make a single number.

Speaker 1  1:13:51  
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. I mean, somebody's saying that if there are big shocks and regime changes, heavy tails, yeah, all the correlation, of course, this is what I said before I repeat it here. That's a very simple model, right? A very simple model which just compares like yesterday's return to the day's return, right? So we cannot reach too much into these models. I'm not saying that this is the model of choice, but it is a starting point. It's like, yeah, you can measure the temperature, whether there might be something or not, right, whether you are sick or not, if you measure the fever temperature that you might have, right.

Unknown Speaker  1:14:31  
So, but

Speaker 1  1:14:34  
again, you I've said it now a couple of times. It's 20 years. In particular, last 1015, years, when I speak about algorithmic trading, people often, quite often, come, yeah. What is about a crash? What is about this? What is about that? Yeah, these are typical situations for which you cannot prepare in the sense of trying to predict them. This is if you are really interested in, like, big shocks and and unforeseen. Black Swans, I would emphasize and recommend that you read the book by Nazim Nicholas Taleb, right about Black Swans, and he has made a killing with buying out of the money options and to benefit from big shocks, etc, right? But don't try to torture a model which was never, never meant to cover such events with, like trying to include

Unknown Speaker  1:15:28  
such elements, right?

Speaker 1  1:15:34  
And there are other questions. Settings, tools settings, okay, tools settings, you see, I've never done it. Here we go. I can, I can go to

Speaker 2  1:15:43  
to light. Oh, this is like, this is like, planning me, like, Help, what I might need to get. I don't know if this is really better. Maybe others can comment as well. I don't know it's now spent that much time in colab, but once again, I never change the color here,

Speaker 1  1:16:04  
nor do I do on my Jupyter lab locally, right? Since they introduced dark mode, that's my favorite, because it's not too heavy on the eyes. So the other question I don't really understand, be honest, right? Is the correlation between previous day and currently, just because market does not see a large number of discontinuous changes, where would we expect the data not to be correlated? Maybe you can specify, I mean, I don't know. I mean, the high correlation between price data is clear, right? Because if the price is on a level of 375 the price won't drop 250 or won't rise to 500 right? So therefore, in the price series, there is a high correlation, because the price more or less stays on the same level. But with regard to the return series, we have positive returns, negative returns, many zero returns, and everything in between, right? So I hope this somehow addresses the question. But if, if it doesn't, maybe you can,

Speaker 2  1:17:10  
maybe you can add a bit more detail. What do you mean there? So yeah, I think the others have been answered. I've answered these right

Speaker 1  1:17:27  
so it can be marked, from my point of view, as answered. If you don't feel that way,

Speaker 2  1:17:33  
you might, you might, yeah, repost it, maybe in a different phrasing, you raising right?

Unknown Speaker  1:17:46  
And don't get me, this isn't like, maybe I'm not spending that much time so

Speaker 1  1:17:53  
very important Python infrastructure with colab, colab usage, I have basically answered for what we are up to in terms of how we can use what we shall do with it, I can also show you here in colab,

Unknown Speaker  1:18:09  
where do we have the terminal?

Speaker 1  1:18:12  
When I go to the terminal here right, I can clone the repo if you want to work in kolat Probably you have it locally as well

Speaker 2  1:18:24  
here github.com my code. Let me change this here a little bit so a pet code.

Speaker 2  1:18:42  
Now. So, and we have the code content. So LS code shows you here, the not LS, oh, I was, I wasn't there. I think I changed their. LS code

Speaker 1  1:19:00  
gets the scripts for example, or which one do we have when the walk simulation, EMH, so Python,

Unknown Speaker  1:19:09  
em h,

Unknown Speaker  1:19:18  
this example

Speaker 1  1:19:19  
shows you similar results to what we have seen before. This is just for you to see. You can even in colab, clone the repo, execute the Python scripts and work there as well without having installed maybe at work, I don't know, no

Unknown Speaker  1:19:38  
no

Speaker 1  1:19:40  
Python installation. Right here we see for the non autocorrelated one, you receive for the autocorrelated one and the first lag. This is where the chart came from, 0.28 right.

Speaker 2  1:19:56  
The 0.28 are. Where are they in? This is the 0.2 HR, right? Excuse me.

Speaker 1  1:20:10  
Yeah, you should read through it, robust quantitative research. I think that's clear, right? Requires the proper tools and the proper tools in a proper toolbox, and might require proper machines, right? Even if you have a regular machine, I recently bought my wife like a small, tiny PC. She's doing our office work right at the company. And this little machine has like, 16 gigs of RAM and 512, gigs of SSD. But for sure, has no GPU, proper, dedicated GPU built in. But even on that small machine, which costs, I think, including VAT 190 euro, which I thought was bargain for that what it can I can access the web, I can go to colab, and I can run pytorch code CUDA enabled on a GPU with 12 gigs of RAM. So hardware usually is not the limiting factor anymore, but we should set up our our environments, etc. You can read about that in the in the article as well, so that we can do our proper work. Here a couple of guidelines. In the past, there was a big proponent of conda these days, I find it a little bit once, I wanted to say a bit little bit too much overhead. There are a couple of good reasons. I don't want to go into many, many details here, why working with virtual environments? But for example, it's something like this, which is often recommended, which I do often as well, but you need to be aware of what you do. So, for example, if you are not careful, and you work in a git repository, and you have here your when in the Git repository, so the local virtual environment here as a systems folder, yeah, it might easily be that your GitHub repo bloats up to gigabytes, right? Or, as myself, I always work in Dropbox folders, right to have backups, etc. I don't want to back up every virtual environment with 1000s of files, etc. So it is a good approach. I just want to say, Well, be careful. Might be couple of considerations that you might take into account before blindly putting virtual environments with gigabytes worth of packages in all the places. But this, I'm pretty sure you all got your Python environments up and running with everything that is shown here, NumPy, pandas, matplotlib, Python, Q SQLite, this is all on call up available as well. So for our data access, we have seen already what is most relevant for us right here. I have something on on a server. Now it's there. I have it on another server, but I think that's usually the easiest with the shortest URL, right? I retrieve it, I ingest it. This is massaged by pandas, and then I can do the tricks that I wanted to do here, like plotting analysis, you name it, right? So that's all pretty, pretty, pretty simple, right? That's our major use case. But in practice, oh my goodness, they are like few years back when we started, basically 10 years back, we started our Python for quant finance meetup in London, and a regular visitor there to our meetups was, was a managing director of Goldman Sachs who was responsible for data procurement, right? They got a whole department, and we can imagine that, right? Big investment banks what data, or hedge funds what data they need, they have like, whole teams in place just to procure the data that they need. Right? For us here, simple csv file is enough, and maybe that's already good enough. And here you see you can ingest it from the GitHub repo. There it is as well. I have now put it on the server for which you can retrieve the data as well. So we might use the data for whatever right. And we can plug it in a price database. We can put it in a research notebook. We can save it in a different format. So once we have it in pandas, pandas is like a we have in Germany, what is called exchange train stations right, where many, many trains are arriving and leaving, right? And this is what pandas does here, right? We pandas can ingest data easily and efficiently, and it can put it into different formats and different places. So but when we have the data, then the work begins, either in the form of processing, pre processing, or. What I want to focus now on, on the mathematical side of things that we are clear, what we are up to, where we work with the data, right? So we have seen already parts of this here is like a summary with regard to returns and,

Speaker 1  1:25:22  
uh, compounding, with regard to compounding and returns, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:25:31  
so I think so they are, like,

Speaker 1  1:25:35  
this was answered. I don't know. I cannot, like, set something to answer. So maybe the first three that are still in the list that are answered and somebody is asking for the main thing that I wanted to convey so so far, we just had two main topics, right? The first was efficient markets, and the second one was appropriate infrastructure. These are the high level topics with regard to efficient markets, which is, I would say, for today's lecture, the more important topic we need to take into account that there is a lot of empirical support that markets are indeed efficient. And once again, I repeat myself, if you strongly believe in the EMH, you shouldn't do algorithmic trading at all period, right? That's it. That's the point, right? But efficient market, we see as a benchmark which is moving, which is changing over time, and we try to beat the markets, right? And now we are getting into the part where we try to beat the markets, namely, coming up with strategies that we want to back test, and back test means figuring out whether we are able to beat the market. So this is in a few sentences, the summary. But once again, the article, people are asking for the resources. So I mean, I have either you have the repo, the repo has the links to the resources also, but the team please share, maybe the full set of resources here in the chat once again, because this, I share it early on, and I'm told that They are sent out with the invitation and weekly overview email for what to expect on the weekend, right? So here returns and compounding.

Speaker 1  1:27:38  
Return should be clear by now we have a simple return right, defined or a lock, return, simple return here, R, lock, return, l, right. They are similar over short time horizons, but they vary more and more the longer the horizon right, the cumulative cross return for the regular ones. Here is a multiplicative affair, right? So we multiply one plus return, one plus return, one plus return. With regard to the lock returns, we have the luxury to be able to add up the single returns, right? So all the once again to the team, all the the other three questions currently are answered as well before. So lock returns at over time which is both analytically convenient and numerically stable for long horizons, right when we when we add up things which are calculated on a computer, they are usually not exact, right? Not mathematically exact. And when we do a lot of compounding, like multiplying derivations and inaccuracies, they they compound as well, right? With lock returns over time, we are simply in a better position numerically. Or when you go to situations like high frequency trading, where you have a gazillion of such events within a day, right, where you have, like, I don't know, a million compound actions over the course of a day, then locked returns are also the better choice, right? The calculation is pretty, pretty simple, right? Here the lock prices, right? And P lock euro, US dollar, so it's lock prices. This is not lock returns. We always need to be careful here. Are we talking prices? Are we talking returns, right? And the lock returns are calculated as the difference of the lock prices,

Speaker 2  1:29:48  
and then the equity here is gained accordingly, right?

Speaker 1  1:29:54  
So pretty simple stuff for you as a reference, so that you have the full mistake. That. So returns are at the core of everything that we do in back testing, but we want to measure other stuff as well. And so we want to measure, for example, the sample mean and the volatility of the portfolio returns. In a simple case, maybe we want to do much more. Who knows, right? And usually, in particular here for our setup, for this, for this data file, which is the only one I'm using, so that you have always the same data set, etc, so I'm not relying on API as to which you might not have access or what this is the data set for which you can reproduce everything that I'm doing here, and everything that the code is doing, right? So it's just one data set here, right? And this is end of day data set. What we have end of day data for the mean and the standard deviation. We usually use 252 trading days and the square root of 252 to scale the volatility from daily to annualized right? Once we have the annualized values, then we would usually here calculate at this point the Sharpe ratio, which is the mean return right over the annualized volatility. Right? We will also come to drawdowns and maximum drawdown, right? This is more like what has happened over the past here, mean and volatility. This is like the whole thing, right? It doesn't say whether we had a drawdown or 50% or whatever happened in between. It's just an average point of view. But drawdowns obviously are,

Speaker 2  1:31:44  
are important, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:31:50  
And once

Speaker 2  1:31:51  
again, I said it no three times, so I'm going to, I don't know, simply delete them here, right? So with regard to the question, so that we keep here our accounts clean, right?

Speaker 1  1:32:09  
Yeah, drawdowns are what every investor is afraid of. You might even encounter a strategy which has wonderful statistics with regard to the mean expected return and the volatility, but from a drawdown point of view, might be all but attractive, right? Here, this drawdown is a typical one, and I would say it's not that severe. This simply schematic, right? But we have one major issue, and this is something that you should never forget right here, the curse of asymmetry. There are other words for that, but I love that one. The Curse of asymmetry means that recovering from a loss requires a larger percentage gain than the loss itself. So it's simply not the case that you say, Well, I had a drawdown of 20% then I had a profit of 20% and I'm even No, you are only even in a lock world. But usually you wouldn't calculate this in the lock world, right? So here, when you have a 20% loss, a 20% draw down, right on an equity curve, the equity must rise by 25% again. So you say, yeah, just five percentage points. That's not that much of a difference, right? But, but, but, but things are getting worse, because this is not linear, right, in that sense, right? The 50% drawdown suddenly requires, not five percentage points more, right? It requires 100% so 50 percentage points more to break even. And that's the big, big deal here, right? Not the variability itself, but the large straw downs that make a strategy, yeah, less less and less attractive, right? So volatility won't tell you that story here, right? Volatility here takes the whole time horizon, all the single elements into account, right? And simply provides you with an average it hides, if you like, what was happening in between here, such a drawdown, and when you say, Yeah, but in the back test, this is not a big deal, because, on average, everything was fine, right? But just think of the situation when you start trading a strategy and you run into such a drawdown. And this drawdown might be going for a year, right? If you are in a real time trading world right in the middle of a drawdown, your view will change completely. Trust me, you might have experienced it, right? Writing out the drawdown is something else than seeing the end result and everything went well, right? In reality, not every. Thing is going well, you might go broke, and leverage and margin calls and whatever might hit are, then the Yeah, the major points, and I'm

Speaker 1  1:35:20  
yeah people, yeah, of course there are mechanisms to avoid such drawdowns, right? You can put stop losses and whatever, right, but still in the back test, you will have drawdowns, right? Therefore, if there have been, and this is now answering a question, obviously here, if there have been control mechanisms in place that control for drawdowns, yes, after the back test, they are already over, right? If you have done the back test and there is still the drawdown, then your mechanisms for execution and etc, have failed to a large extent. It would be too nice. Just think of it. It will be too nice if you say, Well, I have mechanisms in place to avoid a drawdown. In other words, this would mean I go to the casino and never lose a dime, right? So back test is done. You see the numbers and oh yeah, here drawdown. And the drawdown is real. And when you sit in the middle of the drawdown, you will feel it in exponential manner. Somebody is asking again about EMH and run the walk. Please take your time and read through the resources, and in particular, read the article, then many things and arguments that we cannot go into. Every detail here might be much, much clearer. EMH, is just the framework that we have against which we need to pass everything that we do in algorithmic trading. If you talk about algorithmic trading and don't have any idea included in your considerations of efficient markets and benchmarks and baselines, then it's not algorithmic trading in the real world. It's just something in the sandbox, right? Therefore, if you haven't had that much experience so far, right? You should get, we should, you should get back to the topic and include it in your personal setup and framework. So,

Speaker 1  1:37:34  
yes, somebody is now saying, Oh, well, when we see what the strategy fails, I can go back and do it manually. I think this is completely against the spirit of what algorithmic trading is all about, right? You should have something in place where you say, well, I press the red button and I stop everything, right? But you say, you have discovered, yeah, that the strategy fails under these conditions. If this is a real thing, then you can include it in your strategy. If it's not a real thing, you're talking about an emergency situation where you simply stop the execution. But don't think in terms of like, oh yeah, when the strategy is not doing too well, I take over manually, like, good analogy. I think at least self driving cars, right? The driver sits there and the driver has a look, and when the car is steering, yeah, right towards a wall, yeah, wall of concrete, right? You have, of course, the option to take the steering wheel and to avoid the collision or a pedestrian or whatever, but not more than that, right? Not saying, yeah, it doesn't take turns correctly. I help it a little bit. So it should do the stuff on its own. Or we are not really in the algo trading world. We are rather maybe in something like a hybrid setup, right? But once again, you should also recall first of asymmetry, right? You lose 50% you need plus 100% to break even. That's kind of like the thing. And here I was already on that chart, so I'm all but a big fan of the sailor, the chief executive here, of micro strategy there, here, see MSCR. Micro strategy is still their symbol, right? But the company has rebranded to strategy.com they are holding the Bitcoin. So I haven't checked really, but I just let me check how they how they are currently adjusted. They heard that they were selling, and they lost again, 3.85 probably yesterday. I didn't know where they were exactly the trading, right? So you see, over one year or five years, right? It's the big jumps and went down and whatever, right? Minus 41% but the point that I wanted to make, it's not about bashing like these Bitcoin treasury. Stocks, which I think it's absolutely nonsense. I think so. Why should I have a whole company with a whole setup to hold something that it can hold, basically transaction cost, free. But the point that I wanted to make right here, when you when we think in terms of a trading strategy, and many people have invested here in strategy. This has been driving up prices tremendously. Here you see one year return, minus 52% right, and the volatility implied vol going forward, 81% historical wall, 72% would you ever want to invest in something that loses 50% of its value in a single year and has a volatility of 70% probably not. I just was thinking of an example where we have 50% drop, because this was related to the previous chart. Therefore here the example that immediately jumped to my mind, and this, I think one day, will blow up, but don't get me on that. No investment advice whatsoever. I'm just relaying a disregard personal opinions. And I would also like to debate anybody who wants to debate in this context, right? I'm not eager, but I would, but it's, again, maybe only a half informed opinion, so regression and signal evaluation. So once we have some signals, right,

Speaker 1  1:41:29  
once we have figured out a signal, whatever the signal might be, right, think of you might have something. Just think of a momentum signal or reversal or whatever it might be, right. If we say, well, this is has kind of a predictive power for my return series, then we can use here a linear model to relate the signal to the strategy return. This is now part of the research right, figuring out what might be a good signal for the next days, or the future return right, and then you would do such a regression right, in the sense of trying to figure out whether the signal has indeed something to offer in terms of predictive power. Does it help me? My example from before I have it here on the screen in the back, the back ground, right? So I have added here MACD and I have added Bollinger Bands, right? So if I say these are helpful signals, right, the crossing of something or shooting over the upper band, right, or whatever I come up with, then I can use this approach here, right to say, Well, I have identified the signal, and now I check whether the signal has any predictive power, and I'm do so here by Applying econometric methods, right whether the signal, whatever it is, you place what you think is a good signal here, and you deal with your own time series here, and then you can see, oh yeah, there is obviously some predictive power or not, right? So this helps also to prepare strategies on equal footing and guards, yeah, against unintended factor bet. So we are not here really on the on the factor side, but this is, of course, the basic approach of factors, right where you have momentum factor, we have value factor, size factor, and so many others that can be taken into account. So before we go to a break brief discussion, and then we do the back test before building more complex back tests, it is useful to have a compact checklist of what good means for strategy, right? There have been questions today already, yeah, if this is the case, how can I exploit it? Which strategy can I use? What can I implement? Right? I see all these points, right? And there is a point where we need to get specific. We say, this is now the strategy, ordinary squares, momentum, I don't know, Bullinger, band, MACD, to stick to my examples here, right? Where I say, Well, that's the strategy. And then we should take out the checklist, like I would guess that many, most of you, have been flying recently or in the past, right? And every pilot should go through a checklist before takeoff. Right? Is the machine in order? Do we have refuel? Do we know how what is the load of the machine? And simple checklist? And here you have something like a checklist for a good strategy, because, yeah, this is not like the one thing, does it make money there? This is higher dimensional. This is multi dimensional, right? The first thing that we should ask this relates directly to the efficient market hypothesis. Yes. Does it have a statistical edge? Evidence that returns or forecasts differ from noise, right? Does it really have an edge statistically, or is it just some random behavior? Economic edge is a strategy implemented based on my signals? Is it profitable after financing and transaction costs, etc, right. Persistence and robustness. Is it something that only seems to work on a small, tiny data set, or is it more robust or larger out of sample data sets? Right? Implementability? Are there if I have something, for example, in the past, and I've always pointed this out. I have shown many examples. Let's say on indices, right. Let's say on the s, p5, 100, or nifty 50, or puts you 100 or the German DAX 40, or whatever. These are in and of themselves, not tradable instruments. So you need to have other instruments if you want to trade, let's say here for me, in Germany, tax 40 you need to have futures. You need to have options to implement such strategies on the tax 40 different instruments. They need to be liquid, right? They need to have access, right. As a retail trader, are you allowed to trade proper futures, right? Or do you need to look for something else? Benchmarking and capital costs, alpha measure relative to a benchmark. It's not enough to say, yeah, the strategy is positive. If you get more money on your cash in the bank, where's the point in doing all the effort? Risk profile, drawdowns, volatility, tail behavior. So this is maybe not comprehensive. You can add your own ideas to it. Maybe there is something related to currency or regional elements or whatnot, right? So this is, for you, a checklist, right? What do you do for cost of return, significant dollar? I'm not going through this anymore. This is like the description. And here it's like action points where you can do a check mark, one check mark, second check mark, question mark, and so forth. But what I want to highlight, and then we go into the break, what I want to highlight here, ethics as a retail friendly use case. I know many of you, you have your own ideas. What you want to trade, what you want to focus on, but I'm a big proponent, since years of the FX markets, they are highly liquid, and therefore we would assume that they are highly efficient as well. But there are many, many in particular, when you want to get started with algorithmic trading, with deploying paper trading strategies in the cloud and then betting the first money. That's a good playground, at least, if not a good area to stay in a bit longer. So the market structure, major FX pairs are liquid, right height spread so you can, you can trade them at low cost, you can, and this is not true for stocks. For retail traders in general, you can go long and short whenever you like, right? So up and down, long and short, it's like the same it's symmetric that market right for for retail traders as well. So logistics data, tons of data, you get straightforward, Python, rest, APIs, right? This is technology wise, easy, right? Behavior, FX rate often exhibit mean rewarding tendencies around macro and policy regimes, right? So here you have opportunities which you can leverage right in your strategies. If you have, I don't know if you are a fan like I myself, am a Hardware and Technology fan of Nvidia. Let's say what kind of strategy would have beaten straightforward investment in Nvidia? Right? If, if a stock goes up 25% per year on average, or 50% sometimes, or 30% in other years, right? How, which strategy would you come up with based on a video where you would make more, right? So that's so difficult. Also, when you say, I just trade The Magnificent Seven, yeah, they are highly correlated. What do you want to trade with these? Right? You can either go them all long or all short, right? But even momentum strategies are not like what you probably would like to do, given the correlations, right? So maybe you could, but not. My major point here, my major point here, is, you're a US dollar. So here, throughout the remaining stuff that we are going to cover is basically FX the example, right? Has a number of reasons. Among others, I often say technology first, and you get as a retail trader to many platforms, FX platforms, yeah, excellent technology access via APIs, order placement reports, etc. So this differentiates it from any other. So. We are up for a 15 minute break. You see it here on my clock, 120, at 135 hour German time. We will reconvene and follow up on what we have covered so far right. See you. Then you

Speaker 2  1:52:55  
all right, we want to measure on a basic level.

Speaker 1  1:53:07  
All right, welcome back to our second part of today's session. We have now the basic ingredients together, the idea of the EMH against which we are running up, right? Then we have the mathematical basics, right? We have seen like, how we calculate returns, what we want to measure on a basic levels, on the article, for example, they have added a few more things, but mean return volatility will be measures or draw down, for example. But once again, this is often a matter of taste, sometimes a matter also of compliance or rules, internal practices. So there might be a couple of influences with regard to what you consider and think back in terms of the strategy, quality checklist, right when you go through a statistical edge, economic edge, and all the other elements when you check them, yeah, then you might want to move on towards the next level. So vectorized back testing with Python. Now here, what is the idea? Yeah, vectorized back testing Express trading rules as deterministic transformations on entire arrays of prices, signals and positions, rather than operating bar by bar. So what I have done here before, like down here, that's, these are classical vectorized operation. You see, there is no for loop whatsoever. Simply have one data set another data set, I combine them, I do calculations on them, but these are all vectors and or matrices, or even more generally, these are tensors, right? So that's like vectorized back testing. The vectorized part comes from the technology side of things, from the programming aspect, and back testing is the financial. Part. So here you see operations over complete data set. So inputs, we usually use price or return series. I have shown you these before. We need to always, at least have a mental note. Ah, this is about prices. Ah, this is about returns. Sometimes I myself have been fallen into that trap, well, too often, right? And said, Well, why doesn't it work here as I expected? Oh, no, I use prices instead of returns. For example, derive features arranged as NumPy arrays or pandas columns. NumPy and pandas here are the workhorse. So, as rule compute positions as an array based on current and past information. So for example, why are thresholds moving averages or model forecasts? So we need to be careful with regard to current and past. Sometimes we would say, well, we want to predict today's price. Then we can only use the past. If we use the past and today, then we need to predict the future, right? So we need to, that's one of the canonical rules here. I need to avoid what is called the finance foresight bias. We cannot rest our strategies and all the back tests on future data, like in reality, we don't know what happens tomorrow. So today, Saturday, I would like to know what happens next week. But unfortunately, the papers that I read, they only, yeah, write and talk about stuff that was happening in the past. So output strategy returns obtained by element wise multiplication of positions and underlying returns adjusted for cost. So the advantages here are absolutely convincing, compact code, fast execution for daily and intraday bar data and straightforward parameter sweeps right. So that's what we would like to have. Can with vectorized back testing. It's easy to back test, let's say, 1000 configurations of the same strategy as one example, because it's usually pretty fast. NumPy pandas are specifically built dedicated

Speaker 2  1:57:17  
to this part, right?

Speaker 1  1:57:21  
So as a concrete example, now we use a simple autoregressive strategy on daily Euro US Dollar lock returns built from lag features and an OLS forecast, so we compute the daily lock return so they are like getting towards over and over right I can go here, also,

Unknown Speaker  1:57:46  
right where, here I have the time series.

Speaker 1  1:57:51  
There we took the time series prices. These are the simple returns, if we if we would want to take this to the lock world, we would simply apply here the lock returns. But we have had the formulas on the

Speaker 2  1:58:16  
on the slide as well, right if we have lock series, NP, lock, right? Then we would go with Ts, one, right? It's the same here, right? The same formula, what it suggests me.

Speaker 1  1:58:33  
And we get numbers which are, once again, pretty similar on small horizons, like one day, but the further we go, they change all when we add up stuff over time, they change as well. So here you see, there is not that much of a difference whether we calculate it that way, simple returns.

Speaker 2  1:58:56  
I hate this automatic placement here, simple returns and here we are with the lock returns.

Speaker 1  1:59:14  
So assume we have them. Now we calculate the lags right, the fixed lag length of seven, or we can go with five or nine. I decided on seven after a little bit of playing around, obviously. And here we then go seven or nine or 11 days back in time. Then we fit the linear model here so that we end up with some alpha value and some beta value, right? And x here you recall x with regard to the factor discussion from before. These are our signals. We now have here multiple signals. And, yeah. Can then use the forecast given certain signals, so that we from the signal that we observe, right? We observe the signal. Have done our regression can predict the return. So this won't be perfect. This is not what we expect, but we would like to have this as good as possible, right? And given the prediction whether a positive return or negative return, we would go long or short, right? So here is the code I might go this time around to the repo and colab. So I've shown you here the code side, but you can also, of course, go here to the notebooks, right, the EMH story has its own notebook here, so this takes a bit to render. Where you see here the simulating random walks. I've shown you the scripts in this regard here, the autocorrelation and linear predictability. More example, and here are also more tests involved. So the notebooks here are meant to provide you with more stuff that I didn't want to put on the in the article, in part or in the in the slide deck, right? Because it's too much code, but in the notebook, right? This is like a one long, long, long, long file. We can add stuff as we go here quite easily, right? So this is the notebook which yeah repeats and adds topics from the discussion of,

Unknown Speaker  2:01:37  
of Yeah, efficient market hypothesis, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:01:48  
Just whenever I see something

Unknown Speaker  2:01:50  
and you see me looking to my left down, then

Speaker 1  2:01:53  
I make a note when I spot something that might need updating. So vectorized vectors, OLS, so these are static files here, obviously. And from the static files, that's the beauty here, of cool app, right? You see there are quite a few code snippets when I click here on my colab extension. So previously, I simply created a new colab notebook here. I now have opened one from GitHub via the extension that I've installed. It's free from the CoLab team. Here we import the data. So I have structured it here in a way that that it either imports it locally from the repo or that it retrieves it here from the repo in the server. I could also, now that I've uploaded it, I could also use my hilpis.com link. But this should work fine because this is public in the in the GitHub repo, so should be easily

Unknown Speaker  2:03:12  
accessible, right? Well, we

Speaker 1  2:03:15  
get data here. I simply, I have played around here a little bit. You see the end value here set to the end of this year. So I was like shortening the time period, but then I set it beyond the end. So we will work with all the data in here. So Euro, yes, dollar, see here the tail end, right? So that's the last data point here in the time series. We construct the lagged features. We go back in time. And by back in time here, yeah, by default, this is set to five. We can go to seven, right? Let me maybe go here. Change it to seven. For example, seven legs. And let us inspect here, the features and labels data, we would say, in machine learning. So here we have YT. These are the targets, these are the labels. And we have here RT minus one, RT minus two, RT minus three. So this is spelled out explicitly, so that you I use the word lack so often in the past, and many people were asking me, what is kind of like lag, meaning here, what is lag one? What is lag two? So here rt t minus one. So means today minus three days back in time, right? So we see that this is now here, for example, this value finds itself here again and here and here. And if you haven't seen this and you're not used to lagging data that way, you should have a careful look and analyze this in every every detail, because this repeats itself and has so many use cases all around that it's worth simply to be internalized. But this is, if you like, just a. Operational step to then apply our ordinarily squares model here, so we fit the linear model as before on the slide, so alpha and beta here, but vectors on both ends, where the components of x t are lag return. So the there are multiple of these. This is not like a scalar kind of exercise, right? But this doesn't How should I say shock NumPy, no pandas, nor least squares. Calculations here, that much, right? So from the predictions to the of course, I need to do the calculation. Here we get the beta. And you see beta here, what I was saying, this is a vector. This is not like just one value and the classical capital asset pricing model, this is just one value, a scalar value. Here we have 12345678, y8, yeah. We have seven lags plus. And this is added. Let me see where it

Unknown Speaker  2:06:04  
is, column, stack.

Speaker 1  2:06:08  
Ah, here it is. This is what I was looking for. This is the constant term, right? So for the linear least press regression here, there's a constant term added to the lack returns, therefore seven lags plus a constant column of once, no, there's no specific reason to set it to seven. It's a little bit higher than five, and it's lower than nine. But we just want to say again, with regards to the view here, we are not going too far back in time, right? I just say, let's have a look at the last seven data points here, not 17, nor 70. We could do all of this. You can do it as well. So I wanted to have something that looks reasonable. But once again, I'm not here in the business of providing any investment advice, nor would I recommend that you implement this. This is all technical illustration and for

Speaker 2  2:07:05  
here, the teaching and demonstration purposes.

Speaker 1  2:07:11  
But the code is, yeah, implemented in a way that you can easily change it. You change it to one place, and it goes through the other places, right? So therefore, no need to argue too hard if you say, Well, I would prefer five. Go ahead and test five or 11 or whatever. So from the predictions to the positions, we now have our beta vector here, right? The vector, maybe we want to

Unknown Speaker  2:07:42  
round four, for example, doesn't yeah and please sit

Unknown Speaker  2:07:56  
exactly what I wanted to do here.

Speaker 1  2:08:01  
So I wanted to suppress the scientific notation and

Speaker 2  2:08:06  
yeah, just like four values here for me, at least much easier to read. All right.

Speaker 1  2:08:15  
So now that we have the beta, we use the beta here right to come up with our prediction value. So forecast for RT. Why predict? So? Why the original y, here, right? Why here with the sign plus my plus one minus one, right is the Yeah, the data retrieved and calculated from the data set down here. Now we we do the prediction. We get the positions from the sign, raw positions minus one, zero and one right, and then the strategy returns by multiplying the position times the real value, all right? And then, if you want to take into account here a transaction costs, they are set on basis points, right? Then, yeah, we need to calculate what was changed in the position. And here we assume just proportional average cost of the specified value out there. So and after the subtraction of the transaction cost, we come up here with the strategy returns. Calculation is done quickly, and we get now the returns of our strategy one step after the other, right?

Speaker 1  2:09:55  
Yeah, beta is the slope of the line, but we have here not one. One line, if you like, we have here vectors right? So we have not one scalar point x, here has seven values right, or eight if we add the intercept right. So therefore, yeah, it's linear regression, but not with a scalar value. It's linear regression with a vector value. Therefore we have multiple betas instead of like the capital asset pricing model just uses the market return, and this is just like one value, but here we have seven lags plus the intercept, so performance metrics, buy and hold strategy. So let's have a look at what the buy and hold is doing, and also here drawdown and volatility and annualized returns and all that stuff, right? And once we this is now not that much to explain, I would say this is just like one calculation after the other and you find comments here about what is happening here. Here are the results, annualized return, annualized volatility, Sharpe ratio, total return, maximum drawdown, drawdown duration, right, buy and hold lag or less.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:16  
Strategy here, I again, a note that I want to make,

Speaker 2  2:11:38  
yeah, basically the core metrics that we have discussed before. So maximum drawdown here in percent, total return 49%

Speaker 1  2:11:50  
and so forth. So this is all relatively dry, so I personally would first have a look at the visualization and then go back to the numbers, right? So, yeah, it's pretty, pretty wide. So we have the lag OLS strategy, right? This goes up, right? And here we have the buy and hold strategy for you see this over the 10 years, the mean rewarding quantity for the euro, yes, dollar exchange rate. And then I thought we could add one more thing, a coin flip. Long, short. So here it's a coin flip. Yeah, flipping a coin obviously doesn't really make for a good strategy. This looks like a Gambler's P and L and gamblers equity curve in the casino. So starting here, having a bit of luck, playing more and more and more and really destroying it. A random strategy could look differently, but that's the case. So again, here the chart, and then we have the numbers here, also the drawdowns and a total return, of course, the one that's much better on average and so forth. Sharp ratio here, I would say, is not that impressive. Yeah, we could now include leverage and whatnot, but this is just, yeah, the starting point. And this, I should emphasize, is all,

Speaker 2  2:13:22  
is all in sample, right? So here, maybe I add this in sample. Need to add it later as well, because this is here temporary, right? So these are in sample returns. This is not an out of sample performance, just to be clear. Before somebody says, Oh, well,

Speaker 1  2:13:46  
is the cost considered, the noise factor, no costs are set here to the trading volume here, the turnover is calculated, meaning, how does the position change? Usually is from plus one to minus one, and then we have or minus one to plus one. Then we have proportional transaction costs, like one BIP here, right here. This is the place where the costs are fixed, and this is subtracted from the strategy return.

Speaker 1  2:14:39  
Yeah, once again, I wouldn't say this is ready to deploy code for sure, not this. This gives you, like a frame, like if i Yesterday, I was building up my treadmill here, which stands in front here in my home office, right? And I needed, like a toolbox, right, with the screw driver and whatever I needed, right? So this is what I provide you with. That's my thinking, at least, is a toolbox that you can use, that you can adjust for your purpose, right? But it's nothing that will say, there is nothing that is plug and play, but when you say, you take these, right, and you then go with it so and where to test and tweak. Yeah, you can do it in collab. You can do it on your local machine or in other places, but you need to do your work. You can take what is here, and you should, if you haven't done so in advance, you should learn and master Python in order to be able to do all of this right. Otherwise, yeah, it's like not speaking a language, it's difficult to communicate, right? And the whole article and on the slide deck, what we discussed before, right? Python is here, our glue language. And, yeah, you get to a certain level of mastery. This is what our program, the CPF, tries since years, and is hopefully, and I'm convinced it is so successfully doing to teach people how to leverage and master fully apply Python in a quantitative finance and algorithmic trading context, right? So this is what you need to learn simply, and then you can adjust it to your use case, right? I'm not selling here something out of the box. You pay five bucks and then you have a strategy that you can deploy. No, that's not the case. You need to be able, you need to learn and be able to adjust the code to your use case. So, x, here is a vector. Another question. X, here is here is another, another question here, yeah, x is the vector of lag returns. So here on the slide deck, right, this is like the returns. Therefore we have seven in my example, seven lags. It can be nine. It can be five. We have seven lags, and therefore x is a vector and not a single scalar, right? A scalar, right? Therefore we have beta. So seven lags plus intercept fixed value gives eight, therefore we have eight values in x, and we have eight values in beta, right? So it's not a simple scalar regression that we do here. So therefore you see also the transpose here. You cannot transpose the scalar. This is

Unknown Speaker  2:17:35  
for a vector. So here the code. So

Speaker 1  2:17:43  
so as factors, we only have lags. That's the plain answer. Lag returns are the factors. So this looks like the Holy Grail. Oh yeah, that's the Holy Grail. Algorithmic trading is something that is yeah about the search and the pursuit of the holy grail in finance, beating the markets, that's it, from predictions to positions.

Speaker 2  2:18:14  
This was like here the lag buy and hold from predictions to positions. This was like, here, yeah, that's that's here, from

Speaker 1  2:18:27  
predictions to the positions, right? We do here the predictions given a beta factor, but this is all vectorized. This happens in a single step, although we do it for 1000s of values. And here we get the position from the forecast to minus one, zero plus one. And here is where we take the position and multiply by the market return, right? So I don't alter the strategy. I change the position here in this part. So I change from plus minus minus plus one minus one plus one. So I change from long to short and calculate what the resulting performance metrics are all calculated here and here what like the charters, right?

Speaker 2  2:19:22  
So that's here, the equity curve,

Speaker 1  2:19:32  
yeah, maybe they are. Just clarifies the question, if somebody Yeah, if you want to do another, another strategy, you need to change all the code upfront, right? So replacing the strategy that we are implementing here, right? Maybe you can work with elect returns, etc, right? But this is here, the core strategy part, so you would need to replace this fit OLS with whatever strategy you want to implement here. So. So I don't know what strategy you have in mind, but once you have the predictions also here, maybe you have a deep learning based strategy, then you cannot simply use here, the vector multiplication, or the vector one, the dot product. You cannot use the dot product plain vanilla, like here, right? This does not work, so the whole code must be adjusted, of course, to the strategy and the implementation of the strategy, right? So equity curves and here some extensions, if you like to go that route, you can change the number of lags or add other features like moving average signals or just the mapping from predictions to positions. Here might have three positions, long, neutral and short. So your imagination here is basically the limit, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:21:00  
So that's, that's the major point here, right?

Speaker 1  2:21:08  
So, and the strategy has shown some okay results, but I need to emphasize and I was writing it, I need to edit here as well that this was in sample and not an out of sample test. So I've shown you the code here. We have also this snippet where we get from predictions to positions and from then onwards, like subtracting the transaction costs so strategy returns, so from the positions themselves to the strategy returns after having subtracted the transaction costs. So when we compare this to benchmarks, you have seen this already now in the notebook right, we have here the description, or more detailed description of the of the notebook and the code and the chart in particular. So that's that should be the same chart that we have seen in the notebook, because the seeds that bring into randomness here have been fixed, so nothing should change here, when you run it with the same seats, strategy, passive benchmark, investment and the coin flip. The coin flip here is it doesn't have to be that bad, right? It's the message shouldn't be that a coin flip is always doing badly. You can be lucky, like there are the lucky people in the casino. There are some people who smile when they leave the casino and have been lucky, but on average, people are not that lucky, therefore a random strategy in the market might not prove too useful after all. So now to introduce this in today's session, before we then get into the topics that are more involved, a bit of object oriented programming,

Unknown Speaker  2:23:19  
and you might have heard in the past,

Speaker 1  2:23:24  
that in Python, everything is an object. And that's to a large extent that's true. So meaning, yeah, when I go to the code here that I have been writing. So something like this is an object, right? Something like this is an object, and here we have

Unknown Speaker  2:23:50  
an object and

Speaker 1  2:23:53  
the raw data frame that's a more complex object. So we agree all on the fact that there are more simple objects that cannot do that many tricks, and that there are, like the data frame object here, that there are pretty, pretty complex objects that can do a ton of tricks right, that can help us with data ingestion, with data processing, with visualization, with data storage, with whatnot, so simple ones and more complex ones. But in the end, the idea is that we can treat all of these objects in a similar way. There are certain standards. And the second major aspect in Python is that we can add to the existing objects, our own objects that then behave also according to certain rules, and can simply enrich the landscape, if you like, of what is possible in the Python space. Right? So that's one of the major ideas here. So why object oriented design helps so as strategies, data sources and risk constraints accumulate right grouping related data and behavior into classes keeps code manageable and easier to extend. If you are like myself, you have had, in the past a bunch of times you have had the situation where you have been working on a notebook and after hours on end, sometimes maybe right, you say, Oh, my goodness. What is this notebook all about? What this structure and oh, I've you comment out things, you change the sequence of the cells and stuff like that, right? So then there usually is the point latest achieved, where you would say, well, I need to refactor my code bases that I have worked on now in this interactive environment notebook, and need to make proper Python code

Unknown Speaker  2:26:00  
out of it, right?

Speaker 1  2:26:02  
You can also maybe say, if you like that there is a progression in in the world of Python programming, where I say, Yeah, I'm a Python user and developer, right? I don't just do it for myself, for example. And then there are the Python the software engineers, right? They have different answers to give to different questions, right? How can I implement this in a reusable fashion so that many, many people out there can use it and so forth? And then you might have another level where you say, Well, I'm a Python architect. I'm responsible for designing large scale systems and banks and hedge funds and wherever so and the first step you simply can, as they say, double around, like I do so often as well, dabble around with Python and check something out, like I did here. In this little thing here, just type something visualization, doing a little bit of a calculation, making mistakes, correcting the mistakes and going back and forth. So that's the one, the first step. Then you might write more involved Python functions and stuff like that. But there comes the point where you will need object oriented programming for proper engineering and for proper architecture. Architecting of systems, right? There's no way around it, and there are tactical reasons as well, because with object oriented programming, you can achieve certain goals and characteristics that are impossible to achieve via the other means that we have available. So, for example, encapsulation, so we can bundle a state of a position or of prices of an instrument, thinking quantitatively with the methods that operates on them. So we have some attributes and then methods that operate on attributes. For example, reuse, so design strategy and back test interfaces that can be plugged into historical and live data sources. There was a question, can I use this now to back test my strategies? And to Yeah, is this like a blueprint? This is my understanding of the previous question. And here you see, yeah. This is in a large part. Or let me start earlier. I said, No, this is more like it is a blueprint, right? You You can use it, but you need to adjust it. You need to adjust it and make it your own, and make it quote, unquote, professional, suiting your needs. Because this is just for illustration at this point in time, but with the object oriented approach, with implementing classes, you can use design strategies and here implement back test interfaces that can be plugged into historical and live data sources. So one major difference back testing is for historical strategies and trading obviously has to deal with live data sources you can abstract here, reuse and obstruction, clarity, separate concerns between data access, signal generation, portfolio, accounting and execution logic. So there are different main parts of such a algorithmic trading process. And there is often good reason to separate these logical elements, right? You as a human being, you also have a heart and the liver and whatnot, legs and other limbs, like arms, but yeah, they are partly separated, but in the end, hopefully tightly integrated so that they do their work together. You might have also a machine in front of you that a desktop or notebook, also CPU, memory, graphics, unit, interfaces, same thing, right, separated elements and. Different use cases, but together, they should make up the whole story, and should work together efficiently. So preparation later, groundwork for our event based framework. So this is now from general benefits here going to what we want to do next. So the first classes here on the screen, so simple classes for instruments and positions provide a vocabulary for trading,

Speaker 2  2:30:27  
code and centralized basic conventions. So in

Speaker 1  2:30:32  
finance trading in particular, we would think of, yeah, financial instrument that we trade here you see, might specify a symbol and a currency. So yeah, and now in the next, in the next step, as you see here right, the position takes as an argument the instrument, and the instrument is expected to be of type financial instrument. So this is what we define here. Here we use it as an argument. We expect it as an argument. Makes sense. We have a financial instrument. We want to model a position. Yeah, position is composed of the instrument and a quantity. Quantity is easy, that's a float. And then we have self instrument and quantity. But here already we rely on something, on another object that we have previously defined, and the market value is as simple as that. Here, of course, for illustration, we have the quantity times the current price. So the position usually doesn't take as an input the price itself, because price will change over time. While the position will not change that often, it will change. It might change, but not as often as the price is changing. And therefore here we take for the market value. We take price as an argument for the method, yeah, not for the instantiation. And then can calculate here the quantity times price, which gives us the market value, right? So tiny building blocks that make life for us easier. We can standardize things. We can, if you like. We can build our own sub language when we speak of a financial instrument, yeah, we know this instrument has two attributes. And when we speak of a position, we know this has also two attributes, and one. So after a while and think of a corporate context, then there is a common language with regard to the classes, the objects and the citizens in our Python world that have been defined. So going one step further. Now I was saying before we have maybe the developer and the interactive data scientist, that we have the engineer and then the architect right? And here it is more about higher level and systems where we have a data handler. I mean, this is just like a pretty short word data handler, but there might be already that much logic and API interactivity, etc, built in that it's a pretty complex element. It delivers, then the prices in the expected fashion to the strategy, which branches the data, does its tricks and generates a signal right, for example, go long or short, or it could also be, for example, buy an additional 10 shares, and with the Additional 10 shares, the portfolio position would be updated, or we would go from short to long, or we would go from neutral to a long position. Yeah, this is here, very abstract in real life, right? This will be filled with proper stuff, meaning real prices, strategy, algorithms and signals being generated, and then accordingly, orders generated execution value or broker delivers back fields. And then we update here, what was the execution price, and so forth and so forth. This is, yeah, still on a pretty high level. But what this shell also here show indicate is that this is a possible structure, a potential structure for a back testing engine, as well as for a trading engine. Right where we might just replace, for example, the data handler and the execution right? So the strategy itself should behave in the same way in order to avoid any other potential glitches. Should behave in the same way, whether we do the backtest or whether we do the live trading. Do. Therefore back testing should be pretty close to how the real world looks like and behaves, right? So from functions now to a back test class, we have had before, certain one liners, multi liners, and this was here in in this notebook, there is here the one liners or multiple lines that

Unknown Speaker  2:35:30  
work together. Or we have

Speaker 1  2:35:32  
here this reusable function, right that we don't leverage and create, for example, the lags here. Then we have, again, multi liners that work together yet another function. So this is the original structure. This can be the output of a little bit of work here interactively. And then you fine tune it, and you update it, like what I've been doing for a living since so many years now, right? You start dabbling around, and then you try to bring it into a proper format, and you write your stuff on top of it so you see you can make, obviously, a living out of this particular workflow. But here we are concerned now with the with the transition to object or enterprising. So our lag returns vectorized back test is now again our object of choice. Right from Section five, we have here a nature candidate to be transitioned because we have seen it implemented in implemented in the Yeah, interactive manner, and now we can try to refactor it into a small class that encapsulates basically the things that we have

Unknown Speaker  2:36:50  
discussed before, right so?

Speaker 1  2:36:54  
And here it is already, but I wanted to first go through these elements so we have to constructor. So that's the double under method the special method in it where we have the configuration like CSV path and all the other relevant parameters that we have private methods for data handling. We have a fit method to do the core strategy step. This was our Fit OLS function in the notebook. And then run strategy produces positions and returns so when you read through it, this sounds like mimicking the notebook structure from before, and in fact, it is exactly that it mimics the logic and the process that we have implemented, so additional methods can then return equity curves, basically diagnostics and whatnot. Once you have such a base class, right? You can it's like with a home, house or whatever. You can add certain things. You make a nice backyard, you make here, you make there, right? You repainted. So once the core is there, once again, the imagination is kind of like the you the the limit. So let us go briefly through that here, lag OLS back test. We have the major configurations from before. CSV path, this is the local one. Then column here, your US dollar integer for the lag seven, basically the same numbers. I think we should see this and recognize them. And this is here the definition. We load the data, we prepare the data. And data loading means, yeah, reading in the original data, crunching it a little bit so that we have it available. And here we do the fitting. The fitting works. Here, pretty straight forward, right? And here beta, once again, with our ordinary squares regression and the parameterization. So this is all available.

Speaker 2  2:38:58  
Also here in I have it, do I have it still open, closed? I was maybe disconnected. Oh, I had it in the other one

Speaker 1  2:39:13  
time, right here. It's two different run times, of course, two different setups. So let me just check. Yeah, it's still there ls code, and we have here the,

Speaker 2  2:39:29  
what do we have? Like oop. So I was looking here for the OOP. We have the vectorized back test, like OLS and vectorized like OLS lop, so let me maybe have a look at this code.

Unknown Speaker  2:39:50  
Back oop, so in Wim,

Unknown Speaker  2:39:58  
yeah, black.

Speaker 1  2:40:00  
The OLS, but this time class, right? We have had a look at the regular one before, but this time class, here's the init method, which was on the slide. Maybe there are differences so but exactly the same on the slide. So sometimes on the slide there's simply stuff that is dropped off for different formatting or whatnot. So here load end of day data prices.

Unknown Speaker  2:40:28  
Here, yeah,

Unknown Speaker  2:40:29  
prepare the data. See, this is done

Unknown Speaker  2:40:32  
quite differently. Here, much more,

Speaker 1  2:40:36  
or, shall I say, verbose, expressive, with fallbacks, etc. Here we have the fitting procedure, the run strategy one for the back test, and from the basic logic, it should be mimicking more or less exactly what we have had before, like in the other notebook, and also the python script here, the equity curves, but this is now all compactly put together into our class, including drawdown and duration. And it also saves here plots when I run this and gives us it's going

Unknown Speaker  2:41:17  
even longer, longer longer.

Speaker 1  2:41:21  
Here also gives us the output with regard to the statistics.

Speaker 2  2:41:26  
So when I stop this or stop X, exited here and run Python code back,

Speaker 1  2:41:38  
oop does, hopefully, all its tricks, final equity, total return, total duration, annualized return, annualized volatility

Speaker 2  2:41:50  
and sharp ratio, right? So that's the code.

Speaker 1  2:41:55  
That's what shall I say, to some extent it looks much more intriguing and involved,

Unknown Speaker  2:42:06  
involved because, yeah, the code, I can show it here on the on GitHub as well, obviously,

Speaker 1  2:42:19  
because we would put into more effort when you are in a notebook environment, etc, and you wouldn't write such kind of Doc strings, right? But against the background from reusability, from shareability, from adhering to standards either regular professional ones or internal ones like company, internal or institutional. Working for financial institution, right? It is more work to do it that way. No doubt about that. If you if you know upfront that you just want to do that stuff once, and then you will forget it, you probably wouldn't go that route. Probably, right. So, but if there's something, yeah, I've worked on this, and now I want to use it for my own stuff, etc, right? Somebody's you're asking with regard to a code template for strategies. I would say, No, not really, right? So I know people are like, always looking for shortcuts and things. We would say, Well, this is my thing, and now I plug it in and it works. I would, I would recommend, I would recommend, and even plead you that you don't try to do shortcuts that you really go down that route and understand and know this is why you're doing such a program. This is why your turn to Python in the first place. But you can leverage one of many platforms out there where you can back test strategy without writing a single line

Unknown Speaker  2:44:03  
of code, right?

Speaker 1  2:44:07  
That's not the problem. But if you want to really go deep, or maybe your career goal is to, I don't know, work for a hedge fund, for other institutions, etc, you need to learn this. You cannot get by by asking your boss, is there a template that I can use for the task you have just given me? This won't work, right? So you need and should learn it. It's like,

Unknown Speaker  2:44:30  
yeah, like

Speaker 1  2:44:33  
skill acquisition. If you want to play the piano, you need to start playing the piano, right? You can listen to Lang playing the piano masterfully. You can buy, I would just wanted to say, buy a DVD. You just log into Spotify, or whatever streaming service you might be using, and you can listen to Lang. Lang, right? This doesn't involve any kind of training, but if you want to really understand and really want to go ahead with what we are. Doing here, then you need to learn it. I'm sorry, with regard to these bad messages about efficient markets and the required investment, there is some investment that you need to do. There is no way around it in that sense. So here you see it once again. It's quite a bit more, but it usually pays off decently

Unknown Speaker  2:45:25  
in in this regard, right?

Speaker 1  2:45:28  
So that you say, I can share this, for example, on my GitHub report, so that other people can use it, or with one of my colleagues or my team, or with, again, my boss who has asked me to implement something like this, this is where you would go down that route, or not necessarily, go to a Jupyter Notebook and try, yeah, to get everything done within such a notebook context, right? So you have now one blueprint, and I like these examples. It's like a before and after, like before and after, where you say, well, we have interactively developed the strategy. Let's say we have it in a notebook. We also have the interactive approach with functions and vectorized code in script, and then this using as a blueprint we have refactored into here you see the interactive stuff. We have refactored into a proper class. And when you have a look at it, 22 and it goes down to here.

Speaker 2  2:46:37  
No, that is, well, too far. It goes down to, where are we on

Speaker 1  2:46:45  
that level? I'm just looking for levels here. Now, this was much easier, some, let's say, some 100 lines of code later, you have this implemented with

Unknown Speaker  2:46:57  
with regard to the you on the

Speaker 1  2:47:04  
yeah strategy at hand for the second and now reusable

Unknown Speaker  2:47:09  
time. So

Speaker 1  2:47:15  
there is somebody else asking, but then how do what strategy is doing?

Speaker 2  2:47:25  
I'm sorry, but I don't understand the first question that is currently in the panel.

Speaker 1  2:47:31  
There might be a word missing, which, when added, clarifies the question. So I'm but I currently cannot answer the question because I simply don't understand it. I'm a fresher at algo how to write such long codes, how to write it. You need to learn it, how to play, how to play a long piece on a piano. You need to practice, practice, practice. Unfortunately, there's no way around it. It's like you can go to my website, a couple of papers arguing why coding in the age of Gen AI is still a really valuable skill. There is no way around it.

Unknown Speaker  2:48:11  
So again, sorry,

Speaker 1  2:48:15  
sorry, yeah, so what you suggest is back testing should be separated

Unknown Speaker  2:48:21  
to strategy class,

Speaker 1  2:48:24  
yeah, I mean, separated, I don't know. It's not really a separation. It's like a progression, right? You might have your code here in colab, which is now white, which like surprises me every time I go back to it. Where you see here the code interactively develop with a few functions. Basically, there is no, not even a need for a function, right? You could simply use here the code and work with the code. It's not used that often, so no need for functions. Could just be vectorized interactive code, and then it's not a separation. It is, I would say, a progression, an improvement, a Yeah, refactoring into a proper Python class. So that's what I would say, in order to achieve certain goals that we have had here on on the slide here for encapsulation, inheritance, reuse, clarity, and here you see the word, maybe you have it recalled from here separate concerns between data, access, etc, so you should have a clear separation in functionality. So every class, every method, etc, should do one trick and one trick well. So this is maybe what was mentioned here, right? So I think these have been currently, the questions the other ones. Seems to have been a misplacement here.

Speaker 2  2:50:05  
Can Happen writing in multiple things here, so I hope that was answered

Speaker 1  2:50:13  
as well. So when I click dismiss, this is not about dismissing the answer. When it is answered, it's faster here to click dismiss. So couple of reasons why we have seen how and what is the result in the end, right? And the next step, which we do in the second session. The second session is then about the event based back testing framework, which brings us much closer to market realities, leveraging OOP and which, yeah, which provides the bridge. So first it provides another use case for oop, and then it provides the bridge to real time data and streaming, right? So that's the point. And I don't want to go through that slide deck. We will do this with all the time that we need in the second session. But you have everything as reference. You have here, the you have here, the slide deck, you have the article, you have the report. So as we go, you might have noticed I've done a couple of notes for myself and some mental notes, and I will update it wherever I see fit. If you have feedback. This is, again, the first time in this format that I teach the two lectures here. So therefore I would really appreciate your feedback. And for me, a final check, yeah, machine learning models for algorithmic trading, I could name a few, but it's pretty, pretty straightforward to find examples on archive or in other places. So there are recent publications with regard to factor Based Investing, based on rich regression and other approaches. So it should be easy enough. I wouldn't now recommend one or two that I said these are the ones to go with. There is simply too much about machine learning and arbitrating these days. Yeah, good question. Good question. Why event based back testing is better. But this is a question we are going to answer tomorrow, because this is the topic of the second session. It allows you very brief answer. It allows you to deal with market realities much, much better. So vectorized back testing is wonderful, but it's simply too limited. Yeah, once again, somebody is asking same question with regard to the papers. You won't find papers who say, these are like the features that you should use, and these will make you rich. No one is writing this. This is your hard work. So if you say, how do we know which to use and what may work well with which model. This is your work. You need to do your research. You need to read what others have published in this context. You need to do your own tasks. You need to research. You won't find people walking on the streets. I've become billionaire by applying these features with pytorch deep learning, right? And this gave me an edge in algorithmic trading. There are no sources out there. And if you fight one, hey, tell me about it and be Be careful. Usually, these are people that just want your money and not your best, which will be your own success, yeah, in that sense, take care. See you tomorrow. In the next session, bye, bye. You.

