Unknown Speaker  0:01  
All right, guys, can you hear me and can you see my screen?

Unknown Speaker  0:15  
Perfect. All right. How are you guys doing

Unknown Speaker  0:25  
good, great. All right, so let's begin.

Speaker 1  0:43  
You know, today's lecture is on.

Unknown Speaker  0:52  
Just, just give me a minute. Yeah, so you know, today's lecture is about

Speaker 2  1:06  
orders and order books. So remember this how I divided of an algo trading an algo trading firm in three parts, right? The first two lectures, one were on stat stats, right and back testing. In this lecture, we'll touch the very basics of execution, right? How do what are the different type of orders in a market? So whenever you have to execute a strategy. You have to send an order to the exchange. What sort of orders? How do they interact? How do those orders interact with the exchange? How do we know what to buy, not? How do we know what price we will get when we send an order? So just the tip of the execution, the basic building blocks of execution, right? So you know questions like, when I when you say that the stock price is 100, what does it really mean? Can I buy the stock at 100? Can I sell the stock at 100 so all these things would be cleared in this lecture. It's a it's an introduction to two type of orders and order books, all right. And I will give you some very interesting aspects of how you know you can figure out how you can place your orders. So I'll use some statistics to give you that idea. All right, now, we are all here in this ePad course, so I don't think I need to dwell on this. But still, you know, what is an algorithm? What is algorithmic trading? You know, an algorithm is simply a set of clearly defined instructions that need to be carried out, right? They have to be extremely clear, because we want a machine to carry out those instructions right. Now, the important thing is, why algorithmic trading, right? And I'm sure you know these things, but you know, I'll just underscore these three points with algorithms you can identify and react to opportunities faster and more decisively, right? If so, a human being would have a reflex reaction time of maybe half a second if he sees, you know, some prices fluctuate. The fastest trader that I've seen, you know, manually punching an order is maybe they can punch it in two or three seconds, not faster. And believe me, they are like, really quick. And I was amazed to see those traders, you know, punch orders so fast. So, you know, so but if you are making a machine do that, the reaction time of a machine would be in microseconds or milliseconds at max, right, no human being can compete with that Also the the chances of mistyping, right? So I think couple of years back, a firm lost 200 crore rupees just because of a typing error, right? Because of so instead of put the put option, the trader sold. A call option for 15 cents, right? So just, just imagine the the error and that that trade, that one trade, so he, he had to sell 1 million put options for, I think, 10 or 15 cents. And he order, he sold 1 million call options, which were worth around 2000 bucks for 15 cents. So you know that's, that's the amount of money that you can lose just because of these typing errors. So you know, if your instructions are well defined clear, then you know all the you don't get into all these risks. The second point is, you can track more markets simultaneously. You know, when I, when I started, I used to do around three or four stocks in a day. You know, that's, that's what my universe was. And now one, you know, in our form, one trader would trade around 2000 2000 contracts, if not more, right? Because, you know, because it's a machine, right at the end of the day, we are just automating everything, so we have more machines per user. But you know, the the Human Resources less because machines are taking over. Final point reduction in emotion. And I cannot stress this point enough. You know, I've been in this business since what, since the last 12 years, 1213, years. But you know, even now, you know sometimes, you know when the stocks are, you know, showing some aggressive movements, either they're falling or they're going up. You know, you have that in. You have that urge to intervene, and, you know, to either, you know, book your profits, or just get out of the trade. So, you know, because, because human beings are emotional, right? Machine is not so. And by the way, whenever I have interfered, I've only lost money, right? So, you know, the the idea is to reduce human intervention as much as possible. And I always tell this to my colleagues also, the the weakest link in a trading system is, is you, because you would intervene, right? So with machines all these three factors, you know, you're better off in all these three points.

Speaker 2  7:37  
And by the way, so you know, if I so, this is the mode of trading, National Stock Exchange. This is cash market last year. Non algo is only 16% right? This is direct algo DMA is also algo collocation. Is all algorithm, right? So, 3748 more than 50% is, is,

Speaker 2  8:11  
you know, is algorithmic, right? So then you know, this is last year. Now it's even more so, you know, again and again as time is, you know, passing by algorithmic trading is increasing rampantly. Now. Just let me just before I, you know, I tell you about orders and whatnot. Let me just tell you about the ecosystem in the in this, in this trading industry, there are two main stakeholders, right? One is the traders or the investors, right? People like us who want to trade or invest and we want to increase the PnL. The other side are the brokers, the clearing houses and the exchanges. And I will, you know, I will talk, you know, I'll just give you some pointers on, you know, on brokers, and not on exchanges, but on brokers, but later in this lecture. But, you know, these institutions, their main objective is to, obviously increase profits, but manage risk, right? So you can trade with an exchange through a broker, and the brokers the clearing houses, they make sure that if I have bought, say, 100 shares of Apple and the other, the third party has sold 100 shares of Apple, both of us comply with our promises, right? So I have enough money in my account. Want to buy, and he has enough shares in his account to sell, right? And nobody you know breaks this, this ecosystem right? They don't renege on their promise. So brokers, clearing houses and exchanges make sure that you know that the ecosystem works, and obviously so they manage risk. Now the example that I was giving you about those 200 crores the firm, even if the firm Renee that you know what, we don't have this much amount of money. We cannot bear a loss of 200 crores. The Clearing House would make sure that whoever bought those call options for whatever money you know that trade is is valid, right?

Speaker 2  11:00  
There's a question, how does the exchange define an algorithm or a non algorithm? Let's say a manual trader puts a stop. There's a flag in the order, so if you use if you have punched the order, if you've put a stop loss through manually, then it's a, it's a, it's not an algorithmic order. It's an unalco order. So if an algorithmic orders, you know, there's a, there's a flag that the exchange gets, that you know this, this order has come through a machine. In fact, when we you know, you have to, if you are putting you know, if you're putting an order through a machine, then you know, you there's a check that you know whether this order is a non algo order, algo so if you put it through a terminal, it will be from your phone or from your terminal, it will be regarded as a non algo Order, order, okay,

Unknown Speaker  12:05  
okay. Now,

Speaker 2  12:12  
so, you know, I was talking about how algorithmic trading is increasing, right? I think in the US, the percentage share of algorithmic orders is around 80, 85% right? It's really high. Now, the interesting thing is, as you know, as algorithmic trading grew, people realize that they can do two things. One, they can completely automate their systems by quantifying everything, right? Which, which helps you expand right? As I said, I started up. I started with only four, five stocks per day, and now I can trade more than 2000 tokens, right? So, you know, and this would obviously, you know, I don't have to increase my labor costs, right? So that is one advantage, the second advantage, as I talk about, the reaction time of a machine is very quick, right? It can take an action in micro seconds. Now, with this reaction time, people realize that now we can take advantages of ultra short term mispricings, right? Mispricings that are there for only microseconds, right if you can take advantage, if you can trade through machines, you can take advantage of those mispricings that vanish in microseconds. Right now to to take advantage of such mispricings, you know, an algorithmic firm and hft firm would send millions of orders in a day, right? And here comes the interesting one. Now, if you are, the profit per trade is extremely low, right? It's, it's in basic like, less than, say, point 1% right, per trade or per notional traded. So, but, you know, but the point is, because the volume is less, the profit margin is less, but the volume is huge. So, you know, I often joke around with my friend that HFT or a government trading forms are like the fmcgs, right? Huge volumes, very less profit margins right

Speaker 2  14:29  
now. So you know, if, if your profit margins are this thin, you know, every algorithm trading firm has to realize that, you know every every cent matters right, and because every cent matters, you have to place the orders correctly. You have to understand the dynamic of the market from the absolute building block. Which are, you know, which are the orders itself, right? Yeah, so, if I can, you know, so any, any algorithm trading firm would realize right, that if I can increase my profit by by, you know, by smartly placing my orders, right, if I can get that one cent in my, you know, profit in my trade, that that can be huge, because the because I'm sending millions of orders, right? So, okay, let me just, let me just give you an example. Uh, okay, say there's a hedge fund in Singapore, and this is, you know, it's, the numbers are not real. But the case there was actually a case similar, very similar to this. So say this hedge fund of ours, you know, it's in Singapore. They trade around $200 million in a week, right? So assume that they buy 100 millions of securities on Monday and then send sell 100 million of those securities by Friday. And you know, they make profits through that now. So the total traded value in a week is around 200 million right now, say, now they have two options, right? Either they set up shop and in India, you know, in Bangalore or Mumbai or Delhi, you know, they set up an office. They go through all the regulations. They become a member of the exchange. They hire, you know, HR, people, you know, to hire good traders. And, you know, they sort of operate from India. So this is one option, right, which, which has a lot of compliance issues and regulation issues and whatnot. The other option is that they, they are already in Singapore, and they trade in India through a broker. So so they don't set up an office, they just, you know, they don't become a member of the exchange, but they trade through a broker, right? So broker obviously takes care of the regulation and the compliance is and you can place your trades through the broker. So, you know, second option, it's, it's usually quite, you know, it's, it's, it's a, it's a hassle free option right now, say they go broker shopping and broker a, say it says, because of better technology, you know, faster executions, it saves one cent per $100 traded. One cent is per $100 traded is one basis points. It's also called one basis point, right? So broker a helps them save one basis points, or one cent per $100 traded more than broker B, right? So broker a is one basis points bips better than broker B, just because of this broker a better technology and better execution platforms, this hedge fund would save so 200 million into 200 million into this is one basis pointer, one cent per $100 so point 0001, per week, right? Because they were trading $200 million per week, so in a year, just because they chose broker a, they can save 1 million, right? So this is called the so hedge fund returns is x person, whatever they are making out of this buy and sell plus one BIP with broker a, so one basis point is known as the broker Alpha. Before Lehman Brothers, you know, got bankrupt, they were one among the best. They had one among the best execution algorithms, you know, Goldman, Sachs, JP, Morgan, Morgan, Stanley's, they were, you know, they were only competing for the second place because, you know, they had very smart algorithms, faster technology, and they used to, you know, with the same alpha, the funds used to make much better money, Because, just because of better technology and better algorithms,

Unknown Speaker  19:42  
right? So now

Speaker 2  19:48  
what I'll do is I will give you an over, you know, a bird eye view of how do orders go to the exchange. And, you know. How, just a small example of what, how broker a might be better any questions. So far, there's a question, can we rely on technical guys? You know, I would prefer that, you know, let us ask questions that are relevant to the lecture. Again, at the end of the lecture, I can take any questions, or you can schedule calls. That's fine, but here I'll only take questions that are relevant to this lecture. Okay?

Speaker 2  20:37  
Where there's a question, where are the retail traders? Edge, okay, the retail traders edge, see, at the end of the day, if you don't care about that one cent, two cents per dollar traded, then you don't have to be then you don't have to rely on, you know, sending so many orders. Or, you know, because the profit margin is anyways, high. So the edge of a retail trader would be, you know, the alpha would, anyways, be very high, right? So for for an hft firm, my alpha would be, I would per dollar traded, I would make maybe five cents, six cents a retail trader might make, you know, per $100 traded, I would, per $100 traded, I, I might make five cents, six cents, right? Or even less than three cents, right? A retail trader, per $100 traded, he might make $1 or $2 right? So that's, that's the Alpha. It's a different dimension, right? I say it's a different domain. Does that make sense? How to calculate a broker's Alpha? That's a good question. It's the it's difficult, but I'll just give you an example of I'll shed some light on it that you know how you can estimate brokers Alpha

Speaker 2  22:07  
question, millions of orders in a day. How do they manage brokerage and commission? Or the brokerage and the commissions are huge. We, you know, unfortunately, we have to pay a lot of brokerage to the exchange, right? So

Speaker 2  22:25  
is this broker Alpha due to execution fee? No, this is not because of execution fee. This is just because the average price per traded is lower. So per $100 traded, you would say one cent, something like that, with this broker because it has better technology, and I'll share some light on this

Speaker 2  22:47  
question. There's something called an liquidity enhancement scheme in some exchanges you you do get that benefit, but NSE does not provide that. But definitely there are some exchanges that will weigh wave off your commissions if you, you know if you provide liquidity, but we can discuss that offline, all right.

Speaker 2  23:16  
Can people from India do trade in different countries? Absolutely. You. Can, you can. A question is, is this lecture more relevant to HFT traders? So okay, I sincerely believe that you know, in this lecture, I will discuss different type of orders, how do the orders interact with order books? And I'll just give you the basics. So this is important for everybody, right? Everybody, even a retail trader or an institutional trader or an HFT bomb, they everybody should know what are the different type of orders and how do they interact with the order book? There are some nuances that I will discuss in this lecture. That might be only helpful for people who want to enter the high frequency domain, but that's fine. I mean, you know it's good, even if you don't, it's always good to know, right? That this is, this is how people in HFT think, right? But the the key thing is, if you don't care about that one cent per $100 traded. Then you know those, those nuances won't matter to you, right? That's the rule of thumb. Okay? You

Speaker 2  24:45  
with such low margin in HFT, even with huge capital, isn't it hard to be profitable? Well again, I mean, you have to rely on your alpha, right? It's at the end of the day for both retail and for HFT. It's the alpha that matters. If your alpha is good. You're good, if your alpha is declining, then obviously you can be out of business, right question. How can we check if the brokers platform is robust? You know? So that's that's difficult to know until, unless you've actually traded on it, but you know when. So usually, if you are, if your volumes are huge, and you know you are, you are sort of broker shopping, then you would, you know, you would sit with a with a higher management executive of the broker, and you would, you know, you would tell him that these are the volume that we are doing. So, you know, what about robustness? If they have clients that do business of that scale, and they are fine. Then, you know, then it, it makes sense, but absolutely any, any brokers, you know, system can break. I've seen that happening. So again, you know it's, it's, you learn by experience, I would say, all right, a question, is this the same alpha as we talked about? So, this is, yeah, this is, this is the brokers alpha. So why this is alpha, not beta, as we discussed in the last this this alpha is irrespective of where the market will go, right? So that is why it's called Alpha. All right, let me just move ahead. I

Speaker 2  26:45  
this is a this is the bird overview, bird's eye view of how a person is sending orders and how the exchange is reacting. So say this blue box here is the exchange. Change. This is the this part, this dotted line, this is the broker or you, right? So what is happening is exchange is broadcasting information, right? So now, what is an exchange? An exchange is nothing, but it's like it's a marketplace for for stocks, right for financial instruments. So, like, the exchange always broadcasts information that you know this stock is available at this price and what not, right? So it is digitally broadcasting this information

Unknown Speaker  27:41  
to to your broker,

Speaker 2  27:44  
the broker now brokers technology, who has some market technology, market adapters that actually convert the information sent by the exchange to the information that you can actually see it in your phone or your desktop, right? So that gets converted into a readable format. If you have an algorithm built, then the market adapter will send that information to your strategy. Your strategy will understand that information takes some actions, or you will take some actions, send that information to the order router, which is again, brokers technology. The Order router converts the information sent by the strategy or through your phone into a language that the exchange understands. The Exchange then will give an acknowledgement to you that, okay, your order has been placed, the strategy or the strategy, or you will get to know, okay, my order has been placed, and then that information will be broadcasted to every other member of the exchange or broker or trader that you know this order, this instruction has come to me, and this is what has happened. So this is the route. Now, the market adapter, or the order router can be that of broker, or you can also write this. So for example, in my firm, the hardware, obviously is is external, but every piece of code we've written, the order out in and the market adapter so you can write the code, but you can obviously lease it from your broker too. All right. Does this make sense? Now, somebody was asking me nothing, what is brokers Alpha? How can the broker be better? So, you know, I'll just give you a simple example. Say, when the information comes from the exchange to this market adapter, say, broker one has better technology, better code to convert the information. Sent by the exchange to a strategy, say, broker one, you know, does this conversion and two microseconds. Broker two does it in four microseconds. And obviously, you know everything, this strategy remains the same for both broker one and broker two, right? But your order will go faster to the exchange if the market adapter or the order router are better with one broker than the other, any questions, does this make sense? The question is, you know, is interactive broker one of the best brokers? Let me not solicit any broker, you know. And frankly, you know, I'll be very honest with you, I've not used all these things because I have created everything in my form. We've created everything in house. So I've not used a third party software. But I know it's there. I know people trade through it. I don't know whether it's the best or not. Order routing is so you know, once the information gets to a strategy that you know, what are the stocks? What are the prices of the stocks? Your strategy will take an action, whether you need to buy the stock or not. Say you need to buy Apple or say State Bank of India for 800 bucks, right? This information needs to go to the exchange right that I want to buy one share of State Bank of India for 800 bucks. So this information, your strategy, gives out this information to the order router, the outer router converts this information into the information that the exchange understands. Right. Exchange has its own protocols. So this would convert the order, outer would convert the information, send it to the exchange. The exchange would acknowledge that, yes, I have received this order. This has been acknowledged by me, and it goes back to your strategy, so your strategy would know that, okay, this order is now live at the exchange, and the exchange then broadcast this information that a new order has been has come to me, to all the other members, make sense?

Speaker 2  32:16  
Question, lower broker execution time would lead to less slippage, absolutely. So that is why broker a would be better, right? It has so the faster you react, it's always better, right? I cannot imagine a situation that if you are continuously slower, you are in a worse place, right? That that, that that that shouldn't be true. If that is true, then you're doing something wrong with your strategy.

Unknown Speaker  32:53  
Question. There are a lot of

Speaker 2  33:00  
stock volume that deals, how will we, how will the exchange update? Or whenever there's a bulk deal or block deal that goes you know, that happens, you know off exchange the usually, you know the exchange is mandated to to report that within an hour of a blog deal. So you know, then you have to listen to the news. Market adapters and order routers are software. Yes, they would have, they would have their own protocols. Yes. Market adapter. What sort of code. It's a it's a simple code to convert the information of the exchange. So, you know, there's a protocol. So the exchange will send you a packet. Basically, it's a code that reads the packet and then understands which field in that packet is what. So the first field might be the the token ID. The second field might be say the price. Third field might be the side or something, right? So it's, it's, it's simply, you know, reading packets and then sort of parsing that any preference for market adapt to the order router. Usually people use c+ for strategies. You can do anything, I mean, depending upon on

Speaker 1  34:40  
data. Later and see do you want? How fast you want to be?

Unknown Speaker  34:57  
HFT firms usually use C plus. Hi, Guys, can you hear me? I don't know why i Guys, can you hear me?

Unknown Speaker  35:27  
Hey guys, can you guys? Can you hear me? I don't know why, but Okay, okay, yeah, I don't know why the break in between my the meeting just crashed anyways,

Speaker 2  35:45  
okay, all right, so just, just give me a minute, and you can see my screen right.

Unknown Speaker  36:09  
All right, perfect. So,

Speaker 2  36:15  
okay, yeah, so I was talking about the market adapter, right, yeah. So, you know, it's just, it's a simple translation from, you know, you read the packet, and then you figure out, you know, the first say four bytes are the token, the first next four bytes are the price, and so on. So it's a C. I mean, we've written it in C Plus Plus. But again, you know, that is right. Now, I don't want to get into that, but that but that is a bit high level for now. Right now. I just wanted to make you understand, how does this what is happening when you are sending the order, right? So this is, as I said, this is a broader view of, you know, what happens when you send the order? Now, somebody was saying that, you know, if you do a lot of volume, does that help you build Alpha? It's it's the other, it depends upon, so, you know, high frequency. So for high frequency strategies, because the margin is so less, we need to do a lot of volume, otherwise it won't make sense for strategies where, you know, for my mid frequency strategies, volume is not important, right? And those strategies are completely automated with Python, right? Excuse me, and they make decent money. So, you know, it's, it's not that, and they are pretty scalable. So there are different domains, and it's not that you need to have a, you know, a high level knowledge of C plus, plus, I'm telling my even you know some of our mid frequency strategies do do extremely well. All right,

Speaker 2  37:52  
okay, I need to move on. There are a couple of questions. If I have a example of the message, yeah, I can. I can show you the example of a message. I can definitely do that. So, okay, let me just quickly show it to you. So you know we've sort of paused the Okay, let me just Oh.

Unknown Speaker  38:24  
I'll just quickly show it to you.

Unknown Speaker  38:37  
So say, I,

Unknown Speaker  38:43  
you know, if you can see this. So I'll just quickly explain this to you.

Speaker 2  38:55  
So you know, these are the sort of ticks that come right. So you know, it's the this is the time. It's an n means new order. And then, you know, this is the message land, the stream IDs, the sequence number, exchange time, order ID, order type, price. So this is the sort of information that is there in the packet. And this is exactly the sort of information that we send to the exchange. So, you know, it's a new order, or whether it's a modify order, right? So m means modify, x would mean cancel. So these are the sort of, you know, orders that we send to the exchange and what we get from the exchange, make sense? Yeah, it's an it's exactly similar to what you get in a network packet. It's exactly that, in fact, all right, okay, the quantity can differ, obviously, right. Okay, guys, I need to move on. If there are any question, other questions, I'll take them at the end of the lecture. Or offline, because I need to move on now. As I said, the exchange is getting orders right from brokers, institutions, buy orders, sell orders. How is the exchange managing all these things right? So, how are the prices getting maintained? Right? The the idea of a marketplace, which is the exchange, right? It's to show you the price of the of the particular asset. So Amazon does exactly that, right? If you have to buy a phone or a t shirt or a shoe or whatever, or a bag, you would, Amazon would show you that this is the price available, right? So that is exactly what the exchange is doing. It is showing you the price of that particular asset. How is it maintaining that when it's getting so many buy orders from for different assets, different classes, right? What is it doing? So the exchange maintains something called the order book. Right now. What is the order book? So for example, please pay attention. Say an order comes to the exchange State Bank of India is the asset a buy order comes in for price $100 quantity, eight right. The Exchange amalgamates all these orders based on this side, buy orders on one side, sell orders on one side for a particular stock or a token. So for each token, for each stock, it will have an order book, which is nothing but an amalgamation of buy orders and sell orders. And It arranges these orders based on prices. So buy or buy orders, the highest buy price would come first, and the lowest sell price would come first. So let me just give you an example. So say another order comes in for $99 quantity for, how would the exchange store this $400 first and then 99 right? So say, then another order comes in 98.54 say, now a different an order comes in for a different asset, right? For PNB, Punjab, National Bank, right? So then it stores a different order book for each token. So now this buy price is here, and then, you know, orders will keep coming in, and it will continuously store a order. So it will keep on storing so a sell order will come here. So the low so, you know, It arranges the sell prices, so the lowest sell price comes first, highest buy price comes first, right? So let me just show you how an exchange does this.

Speaker 2  43:30  
So bank nifty is an index that's, I don't know why it's a bit slow. So say. So okay, so this is, so this is the order book, right? This is the order book for bank nifty, and it will do it for can you, can you see this? And it will the exchange will do it for each token. So this is bank nifty. It's an index. So this is bid. Bid is the buy ask. So somebody wants to buy 35 quantity, 57x 57,705 acts, 57,705 bucks. Somebody wants to sell 35 quantity, 57,709 so lowest ask first, and highest buy price first, and then the price decreases and so on. Does this make sense?

Speaker 2  44:23  
Uh, there's a question on typical matching latency, guys. I'll take that offline. I can answer that, but, you know, I don't want to waste everybody else this time, but it's an interesting question. I'll take that offline, definitely. So I, you know, okay, is the order book clear to everybody what's happening? So it's an amalgamation of odd of buy orders and sell orders. Highest buy price first, lowest sell price first. This is the structure that will be followed by every exchange. Yes. All right. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  45:01  
Okay. Now

Speaker 2  45:05  
I will start with, how does the how do orders interact with the order book? So say this is the order book. Everybody understands this order book. This simply means the bid price means I am ready to buy. Somebody is ready to buy this stock. ABC, 100 bucks, five quantity. Somebody is ready ask prices. I'm asking somebody is ready to sell 15 quantities at 100.5

Speaker 2  45:51  
this order now, this is a snapshot at 945, and this order book would keep on changing, as you know as orders. Orders are also called as ticks, as ticks come into the exchange there it's ever evolving. So you have an order book at every snapshot. So 945 945 one second, two seconds, 945 two seconds and three micro seconds and so on. So with every tick this order book will change. Is this clear? Is this clear?

Speaker 2  46:36  
Okay, guys, there are a lot of questions that have nothing to do with what I'm discussing right now. I would urge you to have you know questions. Ask questions that are relevant. Rest all of the questions, you can note it down in a separate you know notebook, and you can, we can discuss this offline or after the lecture. All right. Okay, now let me ask a question. So you know when people say that you know this stock is for $100 what does it mean? Can you buy it at $100 can you sell it at $100 so now you know when we are discussing order book. Now the price matters right, and price at its absolute basic building block matters right. So Can, can anybody tell me, when we say the price is $100 what do they really mean? Can we buy it at 100, or can we sell it at 100? So okay, a lot of you guys already know this. But then again, for people who don't know, you can't really buy it at 100, neither can you sell it at 100. It's the price. It's the price that was that the stock was last traded at. So usually the last traded price is quoted as the price of the stock. All right, it's not the mid one thing here, if I want to buy one share of the stock immediately, like it's 945 and I want to buy it right now, what is the best possible price that I can get, if this is the order book of some stock, ABC, at 945 and I want to buy this stock at 945 one quantity, what is the best price that I can get it at?

Speaker 2  48:41  
Everybody understand that it is 100.5 it is not you cannot buy it at 100 you cannot buy it at 98 you cannot. I mean 103 you could have bought it at 103 but that's not the best price. So the best price that you can buy it at is 100.5 because this is the lowest price and somebody is willing to sell it at 100.5 this is the lowest price that somebody is willing to sell it at. So everybody understand this. Okay, great. Okay, perfect. Now, let me move on. Now, I will discuss how orders interact with the order book. Say, a buy order comes in 400.1 10 shares. What will happen to the order book? Right? What will happen to the order book.

Speaker 2  49:47  
This order will sit right at the top, because this is the highest price for a buy order. So this. Price order as soon as it comes at say, 10am the Ask side remains the same. The buy side, the best, the previous best shifts one level. So level one is the highest buy price for bids, highest price for bids and lowest price for ask. Level two is second highest price for buy, then second lowest price for asks. So It just shifts one level. Everybody is clear with this.

Speaker 2  50:39  
Okay, so say a sell order comes in for 100.3 for five shares, it will interact with the Ask side right. Sell order comes in for 100.3 for five shares, and this is the lowest price, sell price. So it will sit at level one, and it will shift all the levels down. Clear. Make sense.

Speaker 2  51:15  
A question, is the order book same on every broker's platform? Absolutely, the order book, besides, like the delay in the broker, but in large it should be, it will be, not sure, it will be exactly the same. All right. Now this is, say the order book. What happens if you place a buy order for three shares at 101 buy order for three shares at 101 what is the price that you will get? And guys, please pay attention here.

Speaker 2  51:59  
The trading price would be 100.3 now people can say, why not 101 Why not 100.5 Why 100.3 the thumb rule is the order that hits the exchange on the other side, right. So this is the buy order. This is hitting the order on the other side, right, on the R side, the order that so this would generate a trade, right? I am, but I am willing to buy at 101 somebody is willing to sell at 100.3 so a trade should happen, right? Which ever order generates the trade? Right? So this was the order book. This order was fired. This would generate the trade. This order would get the best price available in the market. Does that make sense?

Speaker 2  52:58  
Is this alright? So I'm discussing how orders would interact with the order book. So Is everybody clear why the traded price would be 100.3 and not 101 yes or no? Any questions on that?

Speaker 2  53:22  
There's a question about hidden orders. I will take that. That is a type of orders. I will take that towards the later part of this lecture is everybody clear. If this was the order book, if a buy order share comes, if a buy order comes in for three shares at 101 you will get three fills at 100.3 any questions on this, what is not clear here?

Speaker 2  53:55  
Why is it not 100 102.50 because you want so you wanted to buy. If you are buying, you would want to buy at the lowest price. So the lowest price available at that particular time was 100.3 so you will get it at 100.3 so this order generated the trade. Whichever order generates the trade gets the best price available. What is the best price available here?

Speaker 2  54:29  
Guys, what is the best price available to buy? When this was the order book. So the person will buy, he will get a fill for three shares at 100.3 because that quantity was available, there's

Speaker 2  54:55  
a question, if the order book is same on the all on all exchanges, no, the order book is not same. On all exchanges the I said the order book was same for all brokers within that exchange,

Unknown Speaker  55:06  
right? Okay.

Speaker 2  55:16  
Question, if I want 10 share the foot, I will discuss, I will discuss other scenarios. I will discuss a lot of scenarios in this lecture. Anybody who did not understand this? Are you particularly this scenario? What did not understand this scenario?

Speaker 2  55:40  
There's a question, can I place an order at 101 even if the best price is 100.3 Yes, you can. There's a range probably say 10% I mean, it depends upon the exchange. But within that range, it doesn't matter what the best price is, you can send your order.

Speaker 2  56:00  
My your order quantity was three. There was five available. This is when, this is when the order came in. So five minus three. Now the quantity is two. This is after the trade. Order book, after the trade. Clear, guys, this was the or so people are saying, only two quantity was there? No, this is the order book. When this share, guys, you have to pay attention, right? I mean, you have to pay attention to what I'm saying. And, you know, just hold your question for a minute, right? I will discuss them afterwards, maybe, if they are not relevant to the lecture, this was the order book. When the order came in at 100.35 shares got traded. So two are left, sure. So there is no remaining one, the quantity available at 100.3 was five. Okay, okay. Now there are a lot of different scenarios, and I will take them later. Okay, what happens if you place an sell order? Now, sell order for nine for five shares at 99 guys, this should be simple. Guys. Only question on, could you please limit your questions to this scenario only? What happens if you place a sell order for five shares at 99 you will get a fill of five shares at 100.1 because now, if you are selling, you would want to sell at the maximum price available in the market. When this order hits the exchange, the maximum the best available Price to Sell was 100.1 so you get all your trades at 100.1 for five quantity. Make sense, yes or no, any questions on this scenario. Row, 47 clear.

Speaker 2  58:18  
Okay. Now a simple question. Say, this is the order book. You send a buy order for 99.7 for two shares. Now this will obviously not interact with the ask, because the max the lowest sell price is 100.2 so this will just sit in the buy side of the order book at level three. So this was level one, level two. Now this has created a new level three, and then rest of the order rest of the levels get shifted.

Speaker 2  58:59  
The order book is managed both by the exchange, first by the exchange, and then the broker has, you know, because it has tick by tick information. So broker gets all the tick by tick information from the exchange, so it builds its own order book. And the order book of all brokers would be the same. Make sense, any questions on this scenario, and then I will take some more scenarios that people were discussing. If this is clear, then let me move on. All right,

Unknown Speaker  59:32  
okay, now

Speaker 2  59:39  
there is something called Price and Time priority. So here, when I said that, you know this order, when it interacts the order book, it will get a fill for 100.3 this was price priority, whatever best price is available for this order. He gets that pay. Price, there's something called time priority, also the order. If there are two orders with the same price, then which one will get filled? It's the order that reached the exchange first, right? Okay, so let me just create this scenario. So this is the order book right now. At 945, a buy order comes in for 99.5 10 shares, where will it sit? At what level will it sit? What level does it sit? It will sit at level two, yeah. Okay, so now the quantity will increase at level two. Earlier, it was three, same price, the quantity increases, so three plus 10 shares, so 13. So this is how the order book is getting built. Now the interesting thing here is that, say this was my order, my order will have a lower priority than the rest of the three shares that were already there at level two, because the price is the same, but my order came in later, so my order would have a lesser priority than the earlier three shares. All right. Now comes the interesting question. This was the order book. If a third party sell order comes in for 99 eight shares, what will happen? Guys? Please pay attention here. This is the order book. Sell order comes in 99 for its sell order, so it will interact with the buy side. It will get the best available price. So first five shares get traded at 100, right, first five shares get traded at 100, but the sell order was willing to sell it at 99 so first 100, then 99.5 also. Now the rest of the three shares will get traded at 99.5 the next three orders that get traded would be at 99.5 but unfortunately, they won't be our orders. Why? Because our orders had a lower priority so after these trades, so he gets five shares at 103 shares at 99.5 the average trade price is 99.8125 this is the volume weighted average, and this is how the order book will look like. Now our shares have the top priority. Make sense? How fast does the order book gets updated every tick it will. There is no particular time, like one second or one micro second or one millisecond. It just depends upon it gets updated at every tick. So you know, time does not have a meaning. Ticks. I personally believe that time does not exhibit that's a different philosophy altogether. But in so you know, in order books, you have to think in tick space. So as soon as a tick comes in, the order book gets updated

Speaker 2  1:03:42  
over the counter orders, they don't affect this real time. Order books. They they don't get adjusted in this, in these order books, all right, every order book would refer to one exchange only if there are, if there's a stock that is listed on multiple exchanges, then they will have their own order books based on, you know, the buyers on the sellers on that exchange. Any question, any question on what I've discussed, everybody is clear with these scenarios, yes or no, any question on what I've discussed all right. Now, people were asking me, How does order book help me to trade? Right? Why are we discussing this? How is it helping? How would it help me to trade. And although I understand your anxiety or your curiosity and and that is why, you know, I had these two three sheets just to make you understand the importance of order book. All right. Uh. Okay, a couple of questions. What happens if we want to buy it at 101

Speaker 2  1:05:12  
Oh, this was an earlier question. Okay, I think I've answered if you want to buy SEVEN, SEVEN stocks at 101 so you get two here. And so if you, if you place, if this was the order book, and you placed an order for seven shares at 101 you will get five here, and you will get two more at 100.5 Does that make sense? Okay. The question is, where does the difference go or the difference doesn't go anywhere? You just, you know. So the question is that, you know, I a third party send the sell order for 99 for eight shares. He got a trade at, he got a trade at 99.85 so the where does this difference of point 8125, go nowhere. It's this third party just gets a better traded price. That's it. It doesn't go to the exchange or anywhere. It just, you know, this party, this third party, gets the better price. All right. Okay, some question on liquidity. And you know, liquidity is the amount of volume available on the bid and the ask, the amount of volume available on the in the order book, right? This is, this is the liquidity, right? How much volume is there, by the way, all, all markets need liquidity, right? This is liquidity. Is the, you know, the life blood. You know, without it, trades won't be matched. You know, exchanges close because liquidity, right? So the more the liquidity, the better the exchange, right? The more it's like, you know, you can always think about it, the more buyers and sellers on Amazon, the better Amazon would do, right? So same cases with the with the exchange, the bid ask spread is the difference between the best bid and the ask. So here it is, 50 cents, all right? How do market makers show an order book? There is no such flag to show who is a market maker, but market makers usually provide both the bid and the ask. They might provide the best bid or the best ask, or they might sit on level two or level three. So that depends, right? So you know what market makers would do is they would evaluate a fair price, and then they say, if they evaluate that 100.25 is the fair price, they would want to buy it at 100 and sell it at 100.5 if you have any questions on market making, you can let me know offline. I am a market maker. My flagship strategies of market making, we do we do a lot of liquidity, remove taking strategies also, but we have a flagship strategy of market making, alright? Is it true that market makers get charged less? Unfortunately, not in India, but there are some exchanges that give you rebates, but India and India and NSE doesn't alright? Okay, guys, I need to move on. Now, people were asking me, guys, this is important structure of the order book, and how you know you can build strategies around it. Say this is the order book. This is the bid and this is the ask.

Unknown Speaker  1:08:40  
Now see

Speaker 2  1:08:44  
economics, 101 why would the price of of an entity increase, right?

Speaker 2  1:08:58  
Why would the if there is more demand? Eco, 101, econ, 101 right? High demand. When will the price go down? Supply? So this build side is the demand, right? People want to buy, and this ask side is the demand. Is the supply. Bed side is the demand. Our side is the supply, if we can figure out which one is higher. In short terms, we can figure out where the price is moving. And order book can help us evaluate this, right? So let us see this is so, you know, I have plotted them. I have plotted so what I have done is I plot the cumulative quantity with each level. So on the Ask side, the top level is, price is 101 quantity is one till level two, price is 101.25 quantity, cumulative quantity is three. The third level, cumulative quantities eight, price is 100.5 and so on. Till level 10, the cumulative quantity becomes 46 price is 106 right? Similarly for bids level one, price is 100. Quantity is two, then seven, and then 15 and so on. So I have price, I have cumulative quantity for both the demand and the supply, and I plot them. So I plot so this red line is the demand and this blue line is the supply. Can you appreciate this fact that demand is steeper than the supply, so the demand is more Right? Right? Why cumulative quantity? Because I want this demand curve right. Cumulative quantity, what is, you know, how much demand is there till 97.5 till 97.5 this is the demand till 106 this is so here the demand is higher. Now you can quantify this by asking these questions. You know, a simple question would be, if I place a buy order above 10% of the best ask for 10 shares or 400 shares, what will be the how many levels, or what would be the best ask after this, right? So if you place a buy order for 10% for 110 for 10 shares, what will be the ask price? The best ask? So you know, you will remove three eight. You will remove three levels, right? And you will be so all these three will get removed, and the Ask will change from 101 to 102 Is everybody clear with this?

Speaker 2  1:12:10  
Guys, I'm I'm just trying to tell you, why am I saying that the demand is higher? So if I'm trying to quantify this. So what? How do I quantify this? If I place an order 10% above the ask, so 110 price for 10 shares, what will be the best ask? So these three levels will get removed, and the best ask would go from 101 to 102 is this clear to everybody? Yeah. And then I do the same thing on the bid side. I place a sell order below 10% of the best bit, so around 90 for 10 shares, what will be the best buy price? So 10 shares, so only these two levels will be removed, and the best bid would be 99.6 so point $4 so with similar orders, I removed $1 from the ask, but only 40 cents from the bid. That means bid is more dense, right? There is more demand because I could only remove 40 cents, whereas with a similar order, I could remove $1 on the ask. Does this make sense? So the order book shifts less on the bid side, more on the Ask side. This means there is more demand on there is more demand than there is supply. That means the demand is higher, the price might go up on the inner in the short term. Make sense. Now there are, you know, there are three journal articles that I will share with you. If this sound interesting, you know, I will share so, you know, this is a beautiful paper. This is one of the first papers that I read. It explains the price impact of order books. And, you know, how does you know? How does the order flow helps determine the price, right? So this is, you know, it's a, I'll share this article, and then you can also read statistical so, you know, so people who are asking me, Nathan, how does an order book help in determining strategy? So this is what, what it does, right? You can, you can actually see how order book, actually, you know, sort of determines the change in price, because it's all demand and supply. At the end of the day, it's all demand and supply, right? Why do you remove those four levels? Oh, I. Saying, if I, if I place an order for 110 for 10 shares, then how much ask site can I remove? That's what I'm saying. It's just an this is a way to figure out whether the demand is higher or the supply is higher. So 10% above, for, say, 20 shares, how much level will you remove? Then same 10% lower for 20 shares, how much bids would you remove, right? What is the impact of these orders on the order book that will tell me whether the demand is higher or the supply is higher? Make sense?

Speaker 2  1:15:48  
Any any questions on this? There was a flurry of questions. If, if you have a question that is relevant to this, please pose that again. QUESTION We do not have access to the complete order book. No. You can have access to this complete order book if you have access to the ticks. So any you know, access to all the ticks are available if you pay a price. So I'm just discussing that you know people who have access to all these all the takes. They can generate their own order book, and they can evaluate this demand and supply game for this. Again, this is short term, right? Short term you will make like, I mean, this is all high frequency. How to make sense of this chart. So now, whichever line is steeper, if the bids line, this is the demand supply this is the demand line. This is the supply line. If the demand line is steeper, right, the angle from the x axis is more than the angle that this makes. So this is steeper, right? So this means that there is the demand is higher. The same result comes from these two questions, less impact. The bid side will have less impact than the supply side. How did I draw the graph? Oh, I just plotted the price with the cumulative quantity, cumulative quantity and the price.

Speaker 2  1:17:33  
All right, Okay, moving on now, guys again, this is this is interesting, and I'll give you a break after I've discussed this.

Speaker 2  1:17:49  
Guys, please pay attention, you know, placing the order. Where to place the order. So I talked about place, smart ordering, right? And I also said that, you know, I would use statistics to expected value in my third class. So here I'll use this now. Say this is the order book. Say you are making markets, right? All you have to do is you have to figure out a fair price. Now I'm not discussing how will this, how will we? How will we come up with this fair price? This is, again, this lecture is about the execution, right? So we assume that, you know, the fair price has already been determined, and that is the actual alpha, right. But once the fair price has been determined, how do I figure out where to place the order right? The order book analysis can help me do that. So again, if this is the order book right, bid, ask and say the fair price has been determined by the trader as 100.25 now, if I have to buy this stock at the best possible price, what price should I place my order to maximize the profit? Should I place it at 100? Should I place it at 99.5 or should I place it at 98 or 90 right? How do I figure that out?

Speaker 2  1:19:30  
I say, No, this is the assumption. As I said, our strategy has calculated that the fair price is 100.25 and we calculate the profits of our open positions on the fair price. So if I get a trade at 100 I made 25 cents, all right. Trade at best bid, I make 25 cents. If I trade, if I get a trade at 99.5 I make $1 right? Is this? Is this clear? If I make, if I get a trade at 98 because my fair price is 100.25 my profit would be 2.25 all right. No, no, it's not the weighted average of bid. No, no, no. If I get a trade at, say, 99 and my fair price is 100.25 my profit of this position would be 101.25, right? Is this clear to everybody? It will be 1.2 $5 yes or no, yeah. Okay. Now this is clear. Now say the probability of the trade happening at level one is 50% if I place my order at level one, it is 50% my expected profit then becomes point two, five into 50 expected value. If I place my order at 100, my chances of likelihood of getting a trade at 100 is, say 50% my profit would be 25 cents. So 25 into 50% is 12.5 is this clear? Now comes the interesting part, if I place it at level two and the probability now. So now, if I get a trade at 99.5 I make 75 cents, but the probability would be lower because I'm deeper in the book, right? The highest probability would be at level one, then level two, then level three. So say the probability is 25% my expected profit is higher 75 cents into point two, five, which is 18.75 so if I know the probability, obviously I know the gains, because the gain is where I'm placing, and minus my fair price, if I do this, then I can build this chart right probability and gain, and I will calculate the expected value, and I will place my order where my expected value is highest. Does that make sense to everybody? And this is a beautiful application of order box, if I know the probability I exactly know where to place the order, yes or no, clear.

Speaker 2  1:22:39  
People are asking me, Is the fair price average of better than us. No, that is not true here. This fair price calculation will be discussed in further lectures, right here, I'm assuming that it is 100.2 it could have been, it could have been anything. It could have been 100.1 100.4 you know, anything, 100.6 also, right? And then you would figure out whether it makes sense for me to take a trade at 100.5 right, just based on all these probabilities. So if you have a fair price, and if you have these probabilities, you can figure out where to place the order, yes or no. The only question becomes, how do we know the probability? If we know the probability, and if we know the fair price, we know where to place the order, yes. Okay. Now coming to how to calculate this probability, and it's a very you can do it very simply. Now, please pay attention. Okay, from the text say you have access to all the texts you can build your order book, yeah, if you have access to all the text, you know, you pay some price to your broker, and he provides you with the all the text, right? So any HFT form, or, you know, most of them, would have access to every tech from each from this tech, you can build your own order book. Now, for each trade from the order book, you exactly know at what level did that trade occur, right? If you have access to the complete order book at every time, you would know each trade happened at what level? So, for example, say, in one day, 1 million shares got traded. You would know, okay, 500,000 shares got traded at level one. 250, 1000 shares got level traded at level 200,000, shares got traded at level three. So, okay, let me, let me just give you an example, and then I think it will, it will help you understand better. Say, this is the order book now, right for every for every snap, every point of time you have this order book with you, because you have access to all the text, say, a sell order. Year comes in for 99 for quantity 40. What happens? There were five shares at level one, so at level one, five shares got traded. At level 210, shares got traded. And at level 325, shares got traded. So for each trade, I can mark that, okay, how many shares got traded at level one? How many shares got traded at level two? How many level four, level five, and so on. And then I have the total quantity traded and the total quantity at each level. So the probability is simply at level one, it is 500,000 divided by 1 million, the total quantity level two, 250, 1000 divided by 1 million and so on. So if you have access to this order book, you can calculate this probability historically. And then we assume that you know this probability does not change much. Now you can, you know, take an average of, say, last five days, 10 days, to get this probability. Some you, some say, some might say that you know what I want the last five minutes or 10 minutes. So these probabilities can change based on how you what time frame do you want to at? What time frame do you want to determine these but if you have access to the ticks, you can build your own order book. And for each trade that happens, you know what trade happened at what level, and then you can calculate this probability. Does this make sense? If my probability is telling is the best at level two, I will place an order at 99.5 or slightly above 99.55 or so on. Does that make sense to you? There is no way to figure out the live probability without looking at the past data. No. We are determining probability by volume traded at that level, correct? Make sense. Guys make sense, yes or no. So, you know, these are so you know why I wanted to sort of give you some light on the order book. Because, you know, this is, I mean, this is just a flavor of how strategies are built on on order books. And order books are actually very important. It's the absolute basic building block. So, you know, in this lecture, I wanted to discuss orders and how do they interact with order books. So right now, what I'll do is, I'll give you a break again, guys, people are asking me how to estimate the fair price. As I said, this would be taken in further classes. This lecture is about execution for a particular stock order book in cash fNo segments is different or cumulative? No, no, it's absolutely different for each asset type. It is different. So State Bank of India. Future will have a different cash. Would have a different option. Would have different question. The first level has the highest probability. What is the determining the other level probabilities? Or, because you want to calculate the expected value, guys here, I would not place my order at level one. I would place it at level two, right? It's the expected value. I don't want a classification. I want the exact quantification. What happens if there are catalysts that change the underlying probability distribution, then your expected value will not fetch you money, then you have to figure out what happened, and you have to incorporate that in your strategy of calculating,

Speaker 2  1:28:51  
which question Did I should I repeat? Which Which question Should I repeat? The probability would be based on past execution of trades, absolutely, absolutely. Why would I place the order at level two? Because the expected value was highest at level 275, games in two, probability is highest at level two. Make sense.

Speaker 2  1:29:24  
The case one and two, which, I'm sorry I don't know which case one and two. Oh, this, this. Oh, let me just explain this to you again. So people are saying, but the probability is low at level two, but it's the expected value, guys statistics class. I don't care about the probability. I care about the expected value, right? The probability of getting a five or a six was low, but still, I would play that game if the game was being played for $40 right? Right? It doesn't matter if the probability is low, it's the expected value, right? So is the second class coming into picture?

Speaker 2  1:30:15  
Is it possible to have the same expected value for two levels? Yes? Then, then you should be indifferent, then it doesn't matter to you how to calculate. So let me just repeat this case one and case two. What I'm saying is, if you get this case one is, if you get a trade at 100, what is the profit that you will make 25 cents. Because this is the fair price. If you get a trade at 100, you make 25 cents. If, but if you are placing your order at the bid, you don't know whether it will get traded or not. So the probability of you getting a trade at the best bid is, say, 50% your profit. If you get a trade, your profit is 25 cents. Your probability is 50% the expected profit then becomes 12.5 because 25 cents into 50%

Speaker 2  1:31:12  
case two, if I place my order at level two, I make 75 cents, but my probability might be lower. Getting a trade at level two is more difficult than getting a trade at level one. So if you place your order at 99.5 you make 75 cents because your fair price is 100.25 but your probability is only 25% but then you if you have to compare whether case one is better, whether placing an order that 100 is better or 99.5 is better, you figure out the expected value. So for level one, the gain is 25 probability is 50. For level two, the gain is 75 cents, but the probability is 25% so you multiply these and you get the expected value whichever level gives you the highest expected value. That is where you will place your order,

Speaker 2  1:32:12  
the fair price, and this order book would change with every tick, so you have to re evaluate all your calculations. How do I calculate the probability from past data? I know if this was the order book at what levels did the trade get executed? This is historical data. So I have this. I have say this is, this was the historical order book at one point of time, sales order came in for 99 for quantity 40, I know five shares will get traded at level 110, shares at level 225, shares at level three, right? So 40 shares level one, level two, level three. So for each trade, historically, last say, yesterday. Each trade, I know how many shares got traded at level one, how many shares got traded at level two, and how many shares got traded at level three, I have this information with me. I know the total quantity traded, so probability of getting a fill at level one is shares that got traded at level one divided by total quantity, probability of getting a pill at level two, shares that got traded at level two divided by the total quantity, and that is how I can calculate the probability on the for buy. Similarly, I can do it for the R side. All right, it's exactly the mirror image. Okay? If this is clear, what I'll do is, I'll give you a break for six minutes, so I will reconvene at 540 Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:34:49  
quantity, okay, was traded, all right? Any.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:07  
All right, should we reconvene?

Speaker 2  1:35:23  
All right, any questions on this probability? So the question is, what did I divide the past orders by the total quantity that was traded? So probability of getting a fill at level one would be quantity, okay, so let me just write this down, probably

Unknown Speaker  1:35:47  
probability of getting You

Unknown Speaker  1:36:29  
probability of getting a fill at

Unknown Speaker  1:36:36  
level n is

Speaker 2  1:36:43  
a quantity traded at level n divided by total quantity traded at all levels. Does this make sense?

Speaker 2  1:37:03  
Make sense, not price level. Do the probabilities calculated from historical Tech Data hold good? That is like saying, do the strategy that we've tested on historical data? Does that hold? That's our best guess. That's our best estimate. Any knowledge that a human being has, or mankind has, is based on historical so we can test it out see if it holds. Yeah. We need the we need all the ticks here to do this. We need all the ticks we have. We should have access to tick level data. Okay, guys, I need to move on market orders and limit orders. So as I said, I'll be discussing different type of orders, and how do they interact with the

Unknown Speaker  1:38:10  
market with the order book. A market order is a type of order

Speaker 2  1:38:17  
where execution becomes important. So I've discussed all this order book. I've discussed all this structure of the order book. I've discussed Okay, price, time, priority, again, I've discussed this type of market orders

Speaker 2  1:38:40  
executes as quickly as possible a transaction at the best price. So price of the security is less important. Assurance of getting an execution is more important. That's a market order. We don't say that I want to trade at this price. We just say that, you know what we I want a trade at whatever price is available in the market. That's a dangerous thing to have, because the before you saw say this is the order book that you are seeing. You punch the order in two seconds. This order book can change from 100, 100.5 to say 102 and 103 so you know, market I would never recommend market orders. I would always recommend price is important. But let me just discuss what how do they interact with the order book. So if this is the order book, market order to sell, for sure, comes in, the price that I will get would be 100, because the best possible price when this order hits the exchange is 100. So I will get four shares at 100. Okay. A market order to sell five share comes in five shares. So you will, if this is the order book, you will get one share, one fill at 100 and the rest, four shares at 99.5 any questions till row 31 any questions till row 31 so market order, so price is not important. In fact, it's not even marked here. Price is not important, only the quantity, whatever. Whenever this order hits the order book, whatever best price is available, you will get that. So say now you sent a market order for selling nine shares at 1010, and one millisecond, however, before your order could hit the exchange, five shares were removed and moved to 99 99 then, Obviously, you know, say the brokers terminal has 10 million.

Speaker 2  1:41:33  
For fill that 99.5 and five fills at 19.

Speaker 2  1:41:52  
Okay, guys, can you hear me? I think this. I don't know why it's breaking ah.

Speaker 2  1:42:04  
Guys, can you hear me? Yeah, no, I don't know. It's should I change the internet connection? If it's the should I do that? Okay, if it happens again, I'll do that. Right? I'll do that. Okay? I'll just, I'll repeat.

Speaker 2  1:42:31  
You can hear me now, right? So what I'm saying is, I was just saying that market oil,

Speaker 2  1:42:55  
ah, however, not what price that I want to trade at, So I do that. Okay, let me just change the internet. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:43:07  
I'm just changing guys, is it?

Speaker 2  1:44:20  
In but it's, I don't know, just my computer crashed, and then my internet also went away. So,

Speaker 2  1:44:33  
okay, guys, are you? My computer just crashed, and so I've moved to a different computer. What I'll do is, I don't have a webcam, and with this, so that's all right, and I have moved to a different network. Also is the network better? So I have two computers and I have two networks, so I really apologize for this, you know? I hope you guys are forgiving enough, but it's, I don't know, just my computer crashed and then my internet also went away. So I. Matter it is what it is, what can you do? But now it's clear. You can see my screen. You can see the presentation now, and you can see the Excel, yeah, yes or no.

Speaker 2  1:45:17  
Perfect. All right, great. Ah, perfect. So I so we were dealing with market order. So I have, I told you that market orders, we don't care about the price. We only care about the execution right now, as opposed to limit orders, where we care about the price and not so much about The execution, all right, so

Speaker 2  1:46:00  
just give me a minute. Yeah. So let me give you an example of this. Say a limit buy order comes in at 100.75 for 20 shares. Guys, please pay attention. And I think somebody asked for this scenario, limit by order comes in at 100.75 for 20 shares, you will get a fill for 15 shares. At 100.5 the rest five of the shares will make a new level at the bid because they didn't get executed. So they will sit here at a new level. The 15 shares will get traded because at 100.5 we somebody was willing to sell 15 shares. Does that make sense? Yes or No, guys, does that make sense? Yes or no, okay, as opposed to if I had sent a market order. So this is case one where limit order was sent, just comparing it with a market buy order. This was the order book. You would have gotten 15 shares at 100.5 and five shares at 101

Speaker 2  1:47:32  
15 fills at 100.55 fills at 100.1 okay, let me just check, guys. Does that make sense? Yes or no. Make sense. I think the bandwidth is all right now, so let me just switch on the video. If it, if it creates an issue, then I'll just switch it off. All right. But I think the bandwidth, I'm just having a live monitor. It's pretty good right now. Okay, how 101 or because where the market order 20 shares? This was the order book. So market order just needs to get executed, whatever best price. So best price for 15 shares was 100.5 the best price for the next five shares was 101 so you get 15 fills at 100.55 fills at 101

Unknown Speaker  1:48:34  
another example, if this is the order book limit, sell order 12 shares at 99.2

Speaker 2  1:48:47  
99.2 12 shares. So five shares will get filled at 103 shares at 99.5 remaining two will not be traded. So it will create a new level. Any questions on this, on how limit orders interact with the order book. Any questions?

Speaker 2  1:49:11  
Guys, any questions, yes or no, done. Okay.

Speaker 2  1:49:28  
A question instead of 100.7 500.55, will get filled. I didn't, I didn't understand this. If this is the order book and 99 point 12 shares at 99.2 So, okay, the question is, if this is the order book and limit order by by limit order comes in for 100 points and five, if 100.5 is available, available, I'll get a fill out. A better price, absolutely, absolutely. Why is it not taking the third level? Or because the third level is at 99 and my best, the lowest price that I could have sold it at, was 99.2 so the third level is 99 so it's not matching so it will just create a new level. Make sense, okay, guys, make sense, yes or no.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:36  
All right, okay, then moving on, just give me a minute. Just Just give me a minute.

Speaker 2  1:51:05  
Okay, we are so if we had a market order, then these four quantities would have filled at 99 All right, okay, now a stop loss order.

Speaker 2  1:51:27  
People are asking about stop losses. Here it is. So say you bought the share at $100 and now you want to execute a take profit and stop loss at $5 so you bought it at $100 if the market goes up to 105 you want to sell it. If the market goes down to 95 you want to execute your stop loss.

Speaker 2  1:51:56  
For taking the profit. You can easily sell a limit order, a sell limit order at 105 right, and if the market reaches there, you will get traded, great. But unfortunately, for a stop loss, you cannot put a sell order at 95 right. It will get immediately traded. It will get immediately traded if you put a sell order at 95 so what do you do? Because the bidder that 100 so you cannot put a sell order at 95 right? So you will place a special instruction with the broker or your code that as soon as the market best ask or bid reaches 95 you fire a sell order at 95 so you know this. This instruction is only with you or your broker. The exchange doesn't know it. Neither does any any trader or anybody else. It's between you your code, or you and your broker. So if this is the order book, say you took this trade at 945 at 1:30pm this is the order book. So you know, again, you're not doing anything. But as soon as the Ask reaches 95 your trigger will get, you know, this will trigger your stop loss order. You will your code, or your broker will fire that order. And at 95 and the quantity is 11. Now, some people ask me nothing, it's quite possible that still you get, you don't get traded. And I completely agree so it depends upon the trigger. The trigger can be at the bid, if the bid is at 95 then you sell it. If the trigger is at, you know, you can have your so the trigger can be at the bid, and then you can sell it at, you know, 1015, 20 cents below the best bet so that you definitely get an execution make sense? Yes or no,

Unknown Speaker  1:54:09  
yeah. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:54:16  
Any questions on this? Should I move on? I

Speaker 2  1:54:27  
on the stop loss part again. Okay, so what I'm saying is that you know if you if your order, so the for stop loss, you have a trigger. The trigger can be on the bid or the ask. So you you tell your code that you know what. As soon as the order book best ask reaches 95 you want to place an order at 95 for one quantity, that's what you do. So there's a trigger, there's a trigger price, which can be either the bid or the ask. Ask, and then you fire the order, because you couldn't have placed the order directly, because if you had placed the order at 95 with this order book, then it will get immediately traded. So there's a trigger point. As soon as the market goes down, the best ask or the best bid is at your price level, then you fire the order. Make sense? I Yes, okay,

Speaker 2  1:55:32  
guys, Claire, move on. Yes, no, I

Unknown Speaker  1:55:44  
okay? Now

Speaker 2  1:55:48  
IOC orders or fok orders, image it or cancel. Image it or cancel. Now, say you are trading two stocks, peer trading, right? You want to buy State Bank of India. You want to sell Punjab, National Bank. The price difference is important, right? I would never recommend or suggest placing market orders, because price exit, price of execution is not guaranteed, so place limit order, but limit orders has a problem with execution. You might get traded. You might not. So if you are trading two stocks, right? Two legs, you want to trade them. If there's a price difference of 10 bucks or five bucks between them, only, then you want to trade if you place limit order, the issue is, it's quite possible that one stock gets traded, the other one does not, right? That's the unfortunate part. So the exchange, most of the exchanges, allow an immediate or cancel orders. So say you want to buy State Bank of India, you want to sell Punjab National Bank. Benefit of image it or cancel is either both legs will get executed or none of them will get executed. Right? You it won't happen that you are left with state bank bought State Bank of India, but you know no traded PNB, or you've sold PNB, but no trade in Hazim. So immediate or cancel order. Either they get traded or they do not right? So I'll just give you an example. Fok orders are exactly similar. I'll just give you a different but fok and IOC are sim. Fok is Fill or Kill. Either you get traded or the order gets nuked. It got canceled. So say this is the order book you fire an fok order for buy order for 20 shares at 100.1 20 shares 100.1

Speaker 2  1:58:00  
if at before your order reaches the exchange safe the order book changed from 20 to 15, exchange will cancel your whole order. You will not get a partial fill. Now this is this depends upon some exchanges. Some exchanges allow partial fills in fok orders. Some exchanges don't. So you'll have to figure out the exchange. But the point is, price is important, and if the exchange cancels your order, then it will not sit in the order book, it will get canceled. So either you get a trade or it gets canceled. And I'll tell you the difference between IOC and FOK, the mechanism is the same in a lot of exchanges. Fok, you don't get partial fills, and IOC, you can get partial fills. That is the only difference, depending upon the exchange, right? But the mechanism or the philosophy is the same when you when the order hits the exchange, either it gets traded or it gets canceled. And by the way, if it gets canceled, nobody else knows that you were trying to place an order there. So that is another benefit. Only you will get the cancel acknowledgement, right? So nobody else. And you know, in trading, you know it really matters whether your order is visible or not. So a limit order is always visible, either it gets traded or it sits with the exchange, with the order book, an IOC or an fok, if they get filled, then obviously everybody knows. But if they get canceled, then only you know that you know your order got canceled. Make sense? The mechanism is up to the exchange. This is up to the exchange. The pros of fo i. See enough. Okay, as I said, the biggest pro is it doesn't sit in the see, the price can change with every tech. So with, you know, so you don't, it's you don't want your IOC or your limit orders to sit in the exchange if the price is changing quickly. So you you want to either trade or you want to get out, right, and you don't want to show your hand to other traders, right? So IOC and advocate orders are great for strategy that want to remove liquidity. Market makers can never I don't use a lot of IOC orders in my market. I don't use any IOC orders in my market making strategies, because for market making, I want to sit in the order book. Does that make sense? The difference between IOC and IOC, you can get a partial fill in. Fok, you don't. So say, if this is the order book, fire an IOC order for 20 shares the if the order book changed, you know. So in fok, you know, your whole order will get canceled. In IOC, you can get a partial fill of 15 shares and the rest of the five shares will get canceled, right? So this is the difference for also, you know, as I said, If you fire a bio IOC for 10 shares at 100.1 it will get canceled. Not rejected. Rejected is the wrong word. It will get canceled.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:42  
If you fire a bio IOC order for 10 shares at 100.6

Speaker 2  2:01:48  
you will get a fill so but it will not sit in the order book. It will immediately get traded and get canceled. Make sense? If there are multiple assets in IOC. How does the partial fill work? That depends upon the protocol. So either you use an fok or, you know, again, every exchange will have a different protocol for different legs. How do they do it? But, yeah, if the partial fill is allowed, then, then that becomes risky. IOC, you know, changes the dynamics of paired so, you know, if partial fills are not allowed, say, fok orders, partial fills are not allowed, then pair trading, then it's a great benefit, right? You don't get either both the legs get executed or none of them get executed, right? So that's the benefit. Any window for IOC order no window. It's immediate or cancel as soon as it hits the exchange. If the exchange can match the trades, it gets executed, otherwise canceled. My thoughts on fok or IOC resulting in Flash Crash, that's I can discuss that offline flash crashes are different. I mean, you know, there's a lot of pegging, so I'll discuss pegging that can cause flash crashes that's a different only IOC or fok are not responsible. Okay, guys, iceberg orders. Now this is interesting. And you know, there was a person who asked me nothing, what about iceberg orders? How do we treat them? So I'll tell you what an iceberg order is, and then I'll tell you how to determine how by looking at the responses from the exchange, you can figure out whether there's an iceberg order there or not, right? And by the way, iceberg orders are important. The reason why they are important is because, you know, iceberg orders are placed by big institutions. And if we can figure out that, you know, there's an iceberg order here, then you might you can get some better estimate where the price might move. But let me tell you what an iceberg order is, and then I'll tell you the the mechanics.

Unknown Speaker  2:04:18  
Okay, uh, I say, you fire.

Speaker 2  2:04:27  
Say, this is, excuse me, so this is the order book. This is the order book you fire a sell order at 100.05 400, quantity. But what you're doing is there is some hidden quantity. You don't want people to know. See, this is a big order. The average size on this order book is what it's around eight. The average here is around seven. So you know, with 100 quantity, it's a huge order. You don't want people to know that. You know you are willing to sell. Much bigger quantity at 100.05 so the exchange allows you to hide some quantity. There is a minimum that you have to show. So say that minimum is 10% so you will, what you do is your quantity displayed is 1090 is hidden. So only you, your broker and the exchange knows that there are 90 other shares at 100.05 for the rest of the world, there are only 10 shares. Is this clear? This close quantity is the same displayed. This close. Quantity is the display. Iceberg is the undisclosed quantity. Iceberg is the undisclosed quantity. Why do you want to hide your quantity? Oh, because you don't want people to know that. You know you're a say you're a big institutional investor. You want to sell your shares now. Say you want to sell a million shares. Now, if you straight away fire an order for 1 million, people would know that, you know, okay, this might be a huge, this is a huge institutional investor, and, you know, usually they have a timeline. So, for example, say, mutual fund, you want to buy huge quantities. Now, if you don't disclose, then you know, people would know that, okay, this might be a huge player who wants to buy, he and because he has a timeline, he might be willing to buy at higher and higher prices. So you don't, you want to dis if you want, if you have huge quantities to trade, you want to distort the deploy the supply demand. If I tell you that, you know the supply is 100 here, you know that, you know what? Okay, you know there's a huge supply, I'll just shift down my prices, right? So for people who have huge quantities to trade, they want to distort the supply demand. Make sense?

Speaker 2  2:07:04  
Now people have asked me a lot of questions on time priority and all. Let me explain all of this to you, and then I'll answer questions. Give me five minutes. You're 10.

Speaker 2  2:07:46  
Then you would know that the rest five shares will sit at 100.1 instead of this information, what? Now the exchange knows that there is an ice box. So instead of this information, the exchange sends this information, 15 shares get traded at 100.05

Speaker 2  2:08:11  
so if this order is fired, the exchange will broadcast that you Know, 15 shares have been traded at 100.05 now, because you, if you have access to all the text, and you are observing this, this was the order book that you had, how is the exchange broadcasting this information? Ideally, it should have said that, okay, only 10 shares get filled at 100.05 but the number is higher. Everything gets filled. This means there is an iceberg order with a quantity greater than 50 inches. You don't know the exact quantity. You don't know for sure. You don't know, but you for sure know that there is a hidden quantity here, because otherwise the exchange could not have broadcasted this information. Is this clear, the mechanics of how you determine this is the order book. According to you, some trader fires a buy order at 100.1 15 shares. You expect 10 shares to get traded, the exchange says, No, you know what, 15 shares have been traded. Now for us, what? What's happening? And this is for us to understand 100.05 you know, first the 10 shares get traded. You get a fill at 100.05 for all 15 share so you know, your 10 shares get traded. Exchange knows 80. You know 90 is left now. So you know now out of the 85 so. You know they were 100 here. Exchange knows they were 100 here, 15 shares get traded. So now, out of those 85 left, there has to be a disclosed quantity. So a new order, the exchange will say, okay, a new order has come in for eight quantity at 100.05 because at least 10% has to be displayed. So then this information will be broadcasted after the trade. So the exchange will say, okay, 15 shares get traded at 100.05 and then you know a new order immediately with the same exchange. Time will come in, new order for eight quantity at 100.05 has come in. And you obviously know that, you know now there's an iceberg here, because you know that the price, the number of fills could not have been more than 10. Make sense.

Speaker 2  2:11:00  
Question, if there have been another sell order at 100.7 nothing would have happened. The same exactly, the same thing would have happened 100.0 I mean, 100.7 doesn't interact, right? The buy order was for 100.1 so 100.7 doesn't interact. If you can determine there's an iceberg audit, yes, you can execute a momentum strategy. So if there's an if there's a huge seller here, it's quite possible that in the short term, the price might go down, because this guy wants to sell, right? He's a big institutional pair. So you know, the dynamics change. If the price here was 100.07 then also price always takes priority. Price always takes priority. It would have exactly this would have happened because price takes priority. This guy would have got a fill at 15 shares at 100.05 No, anybody can send iceberg orders. Even a retail trader can send iceberg orders. It's not a it's limited to institutional isn't it unfair to other sellers? Well, that's for the exchange. I don't get into ethics of it, but, I mean, I'm so used to it that I don't find it unfair. But I've heard this opinion that you know, icebergs are so unfair, so the exchange keeps on trading your iceberg order until all the quantities have been traded. Absolutely. This happens at exactly same timestamp, exactly same time stamp.

Speaker 2  2:12:47  
Is there a problem to put an order without disclose there is no problem. But then you are showing your hand, you are showing that you want to sell a huge amount. Then people might just, you know, the bids might go down because they know the supply is high. So let, let us bait the seller into selling at a lower and lower price. Could the broker use the iceberg order information for personal profits? Well, that's that's illegal. It's not even unethical. It's illegal. So he cannot do that, that's front running or something you cannot do that. Is it possible that the iceberg order is on any other level? Absolutely it could be at any other level. No issues. Question If someone places and this is an interesting question, guys, see, you have to understand and please pay attention here. The question is, while it is getting traded, as soon as the trader fires this order, say, if somebody else fires a sell order at 100.04 it doesn't matter, the trade will still occur at 100.05 because for the exchange, the exchange won't take time in in filling these 15 shares, because this order came first, it will immediately fill 15 shares once it has filled. Then the 100.04 order will come in, right? Because the exchange knows, and the exchange doesn't take any time, the timestamp will be exactly the same. All right, is the exchange obligated to show the iceberg order? No, it's just obligated to show the minimum disclose quantity. Now there's a question. You could display a huge quantity to sell, to bait the market. So people are saying, hey, I can place huge orders to bait the market, and then immediately cancel the order that is illegal. Any order that you are placing in the exchange that you don't want to trade is illegal. And in my next, in my fifth lecture, there was a person, Hound of the house law. He was actually imprisoned for this, manipulating the markets. So you can't do that, all right, our iceberg, the orders filled on dark pools. Now dark pool is a different, different dimension, different domain. We can discuss that offline. You know, here I want to only discuss lit exchanges. Guys, manipulation is illegal, so I will discuss this in my fifth lecture. I don't want to talk about dark pool that, you know, I it will, it will take a lot of time. I can discuss that offline. Frankly, I've not, I've not traded in dark pools, but I know the concept. We can discuss it offline. We can have, you know, Paul, but again, I've not, I've not traded, personally, I've not traded in rock pool, so my knowledge might be limited, and that's why I don't even care. I don't even I do care. I don't cover it in my lectures, but in case you're interested, we can definitely have a discussion from row 35 Okay, question, question, how can we detect iceberg? This is how we detect the iceberg, right? If you have the order book, somebody fires an order for 100.1 15 shares. You are expecting a fill of 10 shares, but the Exchange says no, 15 shares have been filled at 100.05 this this information tells you that there's enough. There's a nice box. Okay, people wanted me to explain from row 35 so now here I'm saying that you know what. So once the exchange fills the 15 shares at 100.05 85 are left. Now, the exchange is mandated to show the minimum disclosed quantity, say 10% so it will. The Exchange will immediately broadcast and information that there is a new order for eight quantity, the minimum amount is closed has come up on the sell side at 100.05 Does that make sense? A question in the start of the lecture, I said, exchanges have to give the information in one hour. That is for bulk, that is for block trades, block deals. That's a different concept. Block deals is if it happens in out of the off exchanges over the counter, then the exchange has to broadcast that information that you know a bulk deal has happened over the over the counter That has nothing to do with iceberg or anything.

Speaker 2  2:18:02  
Question. If 100 shares are there in iceberg, and 10 is disclosed, and order comes and those two get traded, out of 10, will the order book show 10 eight? It will show eight. It will show eight till all the 10 are don't get traded. Good question, good question. So the exchange only discloses the hidden quantity once this whole leg is traded, so once 10 shares are traded, then it will release the iceberg. All right. Question, block deal versus there are, block deal versus bulk deal. We can, I can discuss this offline. I mean, I think bulk deal has to do with, say, point 2% share or something. There are, there are distinction between what is classified as block versus bulk. Bulk deals can take place in live markets. Block deals are usually over the counter. All right, we can discuss this offline. All right. How far off is normally the analysis of market trend? This is a good question. Up. It cannot, okay, I'll share my analysis. You cannot use this alone, but it helps you determine. It helps you better estimate the price with other factors taken into account also. All right, it doesn't do a very good job taken alone, but if it is added with other factors, then it adds to the to the probability estimate. Does that make sense? How is iceberg different from slicing Saeed? You know, slicing is okay. So slicing is, if you you know some brokers. What some brokers, what they do is say, you want to place an order for 100 quantity with some hidden quantity. They don't, they don't hide it. They just say, Okay, I will only order 10 quantity. Once this 10 quantity is removed, then I will order another fire, another order that is slicing. This is iceberg. You only fire an order once and disclose some quantity. Slicing is you again and again. Fire Orders with that quantity make sense.

Speaker 2  2:20:48  
How can you determine another an order to be iceberg, if the order comes in from a different seller at the same price, because this order, this new order, which the exchange broadcasts, will have the same timestamp as the timestamp of the trade. All right?

Speaker 2  2:21:12  
With volume, tick volume? No. There is no way to figure out an iceberg with a tick volume. All right, guys, I need to move on. If there are other questions on it, I will take them at the end of the lecture, shouldn't the new order have 10 rather than eight it? So this determine. This depends upon the exchange, whether an order for eight quantity comes in or 10 quantity. If the if the minimum disclose quantity is a percentage, then it would say 10% then it would be eight. If it is the actual quantity, then it would be 10. Right? So it depends upon the exchange, the different type of exchanges in slicing. Does the x

Unknown Speaker  2:22:04  
okay? Did I Okay?

Speaker 2  2:22:08  
Okay, I think I've answered okay. Let me move on to pegging and discretion, guys, I will use pegging and discretion extensively in my ah, in my fifth lecture, so please, please pay attention. What is pegging?

Unknown Speaker  2:22:34  
What did I do? Okay.

Speaker 2  2:22:37  
Sid, this is the order book. This is the order book pegging. Order is a limit order where the price of your order is dependent on a particular level of the order book. Price of the order is dependent on the particular level. So what does that mean? Say, I want to peg an order at level one. What will I do? Whatever the best bid is, I will fire an order one tick or five. Tick is what tick size. So tick size is basically one tick size above, one tick size above, right? So the tick size is basically the minimum difference in the prices that the exchange allows. So if, if that said, the tick size is five cents, then you cannot place an order at 100.01 if the tick size is one cent, you cannot place an order at 100.0001 so it's the minimum price difference that the exchange allows between two orders. So if I'm pegging at level one, what I'm doing I'm firing an order at one tick size. If the tick size is five cents, then five cents above the bid, no matter what the best bid price is. And once I do this, obviously, I don't, you know, consider my own bid while evaluating the best bid,

Unknown Speaker  2:24:28  
right? So say this

Speaker 2  2:24:32  
is the order book. I will fire my order at 100.05 if the order from 100 moves to 100.1 I would modify my order 200.15 this pegging helps you in and you know in placing your orders, because say, you know your gain was best level was at level two, but you want to peg it at level. Will two. You want to place it at 99.55 because if you place it at 99.5 Your priority is lower right. First this 99.5 order will get traded, then your order will get traded. So it's better if you know that. You know your expected value is best at level two, you will always peg it at level two. So you will fire it at 99.5 you obviously lose some on the gain, but you gain some on the probability. So, you know, pegging gives you that benefit. You can peg it at level two. So pegged at second level, you will fire an order at 99.55 so whatever the second best bid is, you will do that. Now, interestingly, if a new order comes at 100.2 right? So this was the order. If a new order comes at 100.2 you will fire an order at 100.05 because now level three. Now your order is at level three. You want to be at level two. So pegged at 100.05 make sense.

Speaker 2  2:26:15  
Isn't pegging similar to aggressive buying or aggressive selling. Yes, this is aggression. I agree. A pegging is used to get the best expected value Correct. I have not discussed discretion, but discretion is also to get the best expected value, but I've not discussed it so far. So this is pegging. Any questions on do market makers use pegging. Yes, absolutely we do. How is it done in the terminal? If your broker provides that order type in your terminal, then you can say that, you know, I want to peg at this level. Otherwise, you can do it through your code. Make sense?

Speaker 2  2:27:06  
So instead of market orders, no, no, you don't want a market order. So yeah, so if you want to increase your probability of execution, you just peg it at level one. Make sense? Okay? Discretion, last type of order that I want to discuss.

Unknown Speaker  2:27:33  
Last order type discretion. Guys, please pay attention here. If

Speaker 2  2:27:47  
this is the order book, and this is very interesting, and I I use it a lot.

Speaker 2  2:28:05  
The discretion order is you give your code a discretion that it can modify the price of an order by a certain amount if it can get traded. Now this is interesting, how you fire a buy limit order at 100 with a discretion range of 10 cents. So essentially, what you're doing is your code knows so you've placed an order at 100, now your code knows that it can modify the price till 100.1 if there is an ask at that price, so it will just sit at 100, but if the Ask comes at 100.1 it will immediately trade it. Now, what's the benefit? Think in terms of expected value. What is the benefit? So we have to figure out expected value. So I'll use two cases, one where discretion is used, one where discretion is not used. Say the fair price is 100.25 this is given by our strategy. Again, you know, say it is 100.25 right? And you know, the probability of getting a trade at the best bid is, say, 50% so the profit is fair price minus the traded price. If you use no discretion, you place it at 100. You place it at 100, your expected value. Probability of getting a trade is 50% profit of trade is 25 cents, so your expected value is 12.5 However, if your. Using discretion, if the ask is at 100.1 now your probability of getting a trade at 100.1 is 100% right, because there's an ask, you can simply hit this ask, although your profit of trade becomes less. If the fair price is 100.25 your profit is only 15 cents. But if you get a traders 100.1 your profit of trade increases, your expected value increases 100% into 15, right? Much better. So it's always about the it's always about the expected value. If you can get a trade at a price better than your fair price with a higher probability you would want that, and discretion helps you do that. Any questions, any questions,

Unknown Speaker  2:31:14  
what should I

Unknown Speaker  2:31:22  
concept of discretion, clear, immediately, take, modify a price, get a trade at that particular ask

Speaker 2  2:31:36  
method to determine the range of discretion you will have to run, you know, simulations based on historical data. I can flavor to do this in my fifth lecture. So I'll use pegging and discretion. I'll give you some flavors to figure out what can be the range and whatnot. Can we say we set our risk in discretion. We don't set our we set our aggressiveness. See pegging and discretion are knobs. If you want aggressive trade, you want higher discretion, right? Similar with pegging, if you want higher aggression, you want set higher pegging limits is discretion used in peer trading. It could. I have used this in market making a lot, and it helps. You know, I've done thorough analysis on this, and it really helps. And that is why I have put it here. So it's not that, you know, this is not theoretical. I believe me, I've done this, I've used this, and it helps in the markets. No, no, not by simulation. I mean like, you know, run your strategy on historical data. By what percentage do we want to modify price? It would determine upon your fair price upon the probability levels and whatnot.

Speaker 2  2:33:14  
How to become a pro at reading order box is just, you know, it's just experience. I mean, the more you trade, the more you code, the more you deal with order books, you just know, the better you'll become. So I've not used discretion in pair trading, but I've used discretion in market making a lot, and it really helps is it clear, should I move on? Okay, you know what? What I'll do is, I'll just quickly there is, you know, so I discussed price time priority. Most of the exchanges in the world use price time priority, but I think there are some exchanges I think CME uses a different mechanism of matching the order book.

Speaker 2  2:34:03  
I will just discuss this. I'll take five minutes, and then we'll have around 1015, minutes to, you know, I'll take any question that you had earlier, alright, so just give me five minutes. Let me just discuss this pro rata basis matching in the order book. And then I'll, I'll move to question and answers. So now there are some exchanges that don't use price time priority. What they do is they give weightage to the volume. If this is the order book, by the way, if there was a price time priority and a sell order came in for 10 shares, what will happen? How will this trade in a price time, priority exchange? How will this trade? What will happen,

Speaker 2  2:34:54  
guys, if this is the order book and. If this is the order book, and price time, priority was there, then how would have How would this order have interacted with this order book? How many fills would you have got?

Speaker 2  2:35:23  
So you get two fills at 106 fills at 99.5 and then two fills at 99 right? Does that make sense? So two fills at 106 fills at 99.5 and then two fills again at 99 Is everybody clear with that? Okay,

Unknown Speaker  2:35:49  
so the average price would have been 99.5 now, however, if the exchange is

Speaker 2  2:35:58  
a pro rata basis, it means it is giving weightage to the volume. What does it do? How does it interact quantity at So, okay, so now, how does the exchange match disorder? What it does is it figures out, okay, 10 shares at 99 so it this order. Can interact with three levels. Right till 99 there are three levels. What is the total quantity on these three levels? 22 plus six plus 12, total shares that could have traded were 20? So how many shares get traded at level one? That is determined by quantity at that level into order quantity divided by the total quantity. Let me just give you an example. So how many trades at level one? What is the quantity at level two? Level one, the quantity was two. Order Quantity was 10. So two into 10 divided by 20 shares. Till level three, they were 20 shares. So two into 10 divided by 20, so you will get one fill at 99 how many fills at level two? Quantity at level as six. Order Quantity is three. So sorry. Order Quantity is 10, so six into 10 divided by 20, so three fills at 99.5 and then at finally, at level three, you have order quantity is 12. A quantity at that level is 12. Order Quantity is 10. So 12 into 10 divided by 20, so six fills at 99 so in pro rata basis. You know, your matching is done according to the volume at levels, and this is the formula.

Unknown Speaker  2:37:55  
So say, if a sell order comes in for four shares at 99.5 the price is 99.5 so there are, you know, the total quantity is four.

Speaker 2  2:38:07  
So sorry, the total quantity is eight. This was the order book, right. So the total quantity was eight till level two. So the at level one, quantity at level into four divided by eight. So you will get one fill here, and then similarly, three fills at level two. What is the implication of pro rate up basis on buyers and sellers? Volume would matter? So if you have a higher volume, then, you know, you will get, the probability of your execution will be higher. So again, you know, to be honest with you, I have not traded in this sort of an order book. I think I traded with CME, like, like, maybe 1011, years ago, but not much. I mean, you know, so I don't, you know. I frankly, I don't have a lot of experience with this. So my, I mean, I have not built any strategy based on PRO data basis, but it's there. So I just wanted to tell you that this is also exchanges do follow this. So if you are, you know, make sure that your exchange in your geography is, you know, is it pro rater, price time? Mostly it should be price time. But if it is pro rata, then you know, all these probabilities are filled and all they change. As I said, I think CME uses pro rata.

Unknown Speaker  2:39:48  
Okay, so you know,

Speaker 2  2:39:54  
this is what I had for you in this lecture. I hope you know the. The key takeaways from the lecture is, what are the different type of orders, market orders, limit orders, pegging, discretion, IOC How do you determine iceberg? But more importantly, you know you should be comfortable in understanding what an order book is, and if an order is sent, how will it interact with the order book. If that is clear, then, you know, most of my job with this lecture has been completed. And then, you know, this is just the icing on the cake. How does the order books help you determine short term movements, right with probability of sales? You know, I just added this to add a lot of flavor to this lecture that you know. How do you determine where to place the orders. I do this. I use this nothing in this lecture. You know, whatever I discuss, I use them like I use pegging, I use discretion. I use these probabilities. So it's not that I don't use them. But again, you know, the idea was to make you understand order books, and how does, how do different orders interact with different how do they track with the order book? All right, okay. Now questions priority would be questions on this lecture, then on my previous two lectures, and then on trading road 25 okay, I was just giving you another example here, example

Unknown Speaker  2:41:33  
two. So I was just if this was the order book.

Speaker 2  2:41:47  
So this is this example to this was the order book. A sell order comes in for four shares at 99.5 then how will it interact? So this order interacts with two levels, right? 99.5 so two levels, so the total quantity is eight. Let me just copy the formulas here.

Speaker 2  2:42:15  
So quantity at level is two. At level one is two. Total order quantity is four. So two into four divided by eight, because it would have interacted with two levels, and the cumulative quantity till level two is eight. So two into four divided by eight, so one fell and then similarly, level two make sense. Link on NSC to view the order book, okay, yeah, this is

Speaker 2  2:42:52  
so you'll have to do this. Okay, let me just give this. I will share the journal articles. You will get it. I think they will be uploaded in LMS. Where did that go? Wow.

Speaker 2  2:43:16  
Where did that question go? I don't know where it went, but anyway, so this is the link.

Unknown Speaker  2:43:25  
So this is the link, anyways,

Speaker 2  2:43:28  
okay, wow, there's a flurry of questions. Let me just take them one by one. Okay, ah, why did not? Why didn't the shares get executed at level one? This is because pro rater, because the exchange is giving weightage to the volume higher the volume. You know, priority is not only price and time, it is volume also, what if the result is a float number, the exchange will tell you how to handle that in its protocol, right? So you'll have to read the protocol. If it's if it's 2.1 or 6.1 It depends whether it rounds down or rounds up, or what does it do? So that will be in the protocol of the exchange. How would you treat pro databases in HFT, I don't, I haven't. So, you know, I mean, but we can brainstorm. If you have an idea, we can definitely brainstorm. But as I said, to be honest, I haven't traded this in HFT, and it would be different. It would be very different. So I have to think about, you know, how it changes everything, but it would be different, for sure. Best Books for the past, lectures, you know, you know, ePAT is about consolidating a lot of information. You know, financial this industry is so huge, but you know, EPA is about sort of consolidating. Things that we actually use. So there's no not particular book. If there's a particular topic, there are obviously a lot of books on statistics. If there are any particular topic that you want to this, that you want to read about in statistics, we can probably recommend something. But like, whatever I discussed in the first lecture on this lecture, there won't be a lot of books that actually discuss this, right? There will be, obviously, there would be books on micro structures, and I will share articles or on order books. But, you know, I mean, there's no one particular book that will cover everything. So there, if you have topics that could be covered in books, I

Speaker 2  2:45:50  
uh, would I recommend reading these lecture materials to you know? I mean, just, just go through the lecture again. If you have any questions, just shoot an email, schedule a call. You know, I'll be more than happy because I don't recommend, usually I don't recommend anything outside. If there are particular section that you did not understand in statistics, then I might recommend. But I think, you know, just go through the lectures again and you know, if you have any doubts, just shoot an email.

Speaker 2  2:46:30  
Okay, some questions regarding the ATS strategy, because the exit signal was not shown. Yeah, the exit signal was not shown, and I wanted you to sort of do it on your own. If you have any questions again, you can just, you know, shoot and shoot a question. Shoot an email to your RM, you know, we will make sure that it is answered.

Speaker 2  2:47:01  
Question in the assignment the signal calculations, the question says, if the price touches three candles high or low. But in the lecture, we compared high low with the current high low instead of current close price. No, no, no. So we didn't, we didn't choose the current close price because, because in that candle, if the price is going higher than the previous high or low candles, then you would know you have to take the trade, right? You don't need to wait for the close price. That is why I didn't. I didn't take the current close. I took the actual current high or low, because as soon as in the current phase, if the price goes beyond the high candle the last three high the maximum of the prices in the last three candles, then you know that you have to take a trade. You don't have to wait for the close price. Does that make sense? The TR is lagged by T minus one, or because that is we, we want to give some weightage. So that was about the weightage. So that's like an exponential moving average. So you, you know, you, you take, you give some weightage to the average TR, and then to the you give more weightage to the immediate ATR. Do we exit by the trading signal, or exit by the ATR stop loss? You take both into account. If your exit is through the trading signal, then you exit. But if the trading signal is not there, and you hit a stop loss or a book profit, then also you exit. The difference is, if you are exiting by a trading signal, you take a opposite trade. If you are exiting by the stop loss or taking a profit, then you take, don't take an opposite trade. Make sense?

Speaker 2  2:49:02  
If there are 10 people with 10 shares waiting on bids, and a sell order comes for 20 shares, how they decided which two people will get the Fill based on price priority? So if the sorry, yeah, so first is the price, and then the time. So whoever has the best price, if the price is the same, then whoever was the order that came in first to the exchange gets priority. Make sense? Whichever comes first, if the price is the same, any realistic range of analyzed returns using various strategies. You know, there's no there's no average. I mean, I've had strategies that give excellent returns, some strategies that just barely beat the index. See, it's about if you are, let me tell you this, and I will discuss this in my last lecture with sharp pressure and whatnot. But if you. Are doing better than the index consistently. That's a great strategy. You can really scale it up. How about that with a similar risk? If you are beating the index consistently by even by, you know, two, three points, right? So if the index is giving 14, 15% and you are getting 17, 18% consistently month on month, year on year. That's a great that's a great fund, right? So how about that? How to calculate average number of trades per trading hour and average holding period. So you have the trade, you have the exit, so that is the holding period, right? So say, for each trade, you can calculate, okay, this trade was held for five minutes, for 10 minutes. So for each trade, you know, whenever you exit. So say, you took the trade at 10 o'clock, you exited at 1015 then another trade you took at 1020 you exited at 1025 so the first trade holding period is 15, the next trade holding period is five. So you take the average How do you take the holding period? Just as price, you will have to, you know, keep a check of the time. When was the time that it that you took this trade? So you will have to carry over the time as well. And then average number of trades per trading hour. You know the number of trading hours. You know the number of trades. So you can you know if the market is open for six hours and 15 minutes, so 6.2 so number of trades divided by 6.25 so

Speaker 2  2:51:44  
can I explain the difference between price time priority and pro matching? Greater, absolutely, absolutely. Let us just take this example. If this is the order book, and you have price time priority and a sell order comes in for four shares, what will happen? How many fills will you get at 100? How many fills will you get at 99.5? The person who asked me,

Speaker 2  2:52:14  
difference between price, time, priority. So if this is the order book, if this is the order book, it and I want to and a sell order comes in for four shares at 99.5 how many fills will I get? At 100? I'll get two fills here and two fills at 99.5 Yes, the person who asked me this question, do you understand this? Two shares here, and two shares here. However, if it is pro rata based, if it is pro rata based, then this is the formula. Then the exchange will say, Okay, this 99.5 will interact with two levels, right till two levels you have the price 99.5 the exchange will calculate the number of shares till that level two, so eight, number eight shares. And then for each level, it will give you the fill. According to this formula, quantity at level is two. Order Quantity is four, so two into four divided by eight, so you will get only one fill at 100 and rest three fills at 99.5 as opposed to in price time priority would have gotten two fills here and two fills here. In pro rata, one fill here, three fills here, because of the volume. Clear, make sense.

Speaker 2  2:53:52  
Does it to buy execute at the better price of 99.5 or the two cells get executed at the better price? No, no. So this is a sell order. So the sell order gets traded at 199.5 so obviously the sell order gets the benefit, because the order that generates the trade gets the better price. The order that generated, this order is generating the trade, right? This order will get whatever best price is available in the market. So the seller here, the initiator of the trade, gets the better price. Make sense? Guys, did I okay? Any any other questions? I'm here for another five minutes. Any other question?

Speaker 2  2:54:49  
If the ATR is the average of last nr, then shouldn't ATR be minus first TR for previous window, plus. No, no. ATR has a, I think ATR has a average of it's the average of the TRS. I'll have to check that. Just, just drop me an email. I'll just double check this. All right. There shouldn't be an issue with the formula, but I'll just, just just drop me an email. I will, I will double check this. Alright. Do we exit by trading signal? As I said, you check both. If there is an opposite trading signal, then you exit by trading signal. If, if in between a stop loss or a take profit has come in place, then you exit by that. But the difference is, if you are exiting by a trading signal, then you take the opposite trade. If you are exiting by a stop loss or a take profit, then you don't take the opposite trade. You just wait, and your inventory becomes zero. Any other questions, did I I'm I might have missed a lot of questions. So guys, you know, there's a flurry of questions. It's, it's, it was difficult for me to to figure what I missed. I think I've answered this question. But again, in the lecture, we compared the high low with the current high low. So you must compare it with the current high low, because you already know the maximum price of the last three candles and the minimum price of the last three candles. So if in the current candle, if in the current candle, that the price has crossed the maximum of the of the last three candles, then you will take the trade immediately, right? You will not stop till the closing price. You will not wait till the closing price. If your high has already if your price has already crossed the maximum of the last three candles, then you will take a buy, right? So you know you have to compare it with it. You don't have to compare it with the current close you current close. You will compare it with the current, high

Speaker 2  2:57:12  
or low. The TR calculation is lacked because, because of the moving average, the AMA formula. But again, you know, I'll just double check this. I'll just double check this. I don't use ATR and TR, so, you know, I'll have to double check this. I'll just drop me an email about this. Is there any time limit to submit the assignment? You know, I don't know. I mean, you'll have to talk to your RM about this. All right, okay, last three questions, guys, any question unanswered, you know, just let me know again.

Speaker 2  2:58:01  
What happens if the discretion order is not executed, you can either cancel it or modify it, right? It will, it will sit there in the exchange book until, unless you do, or you can actually have your discretion order, you know, as an IOC, so either it will get traded or it will get canceled.

Speaker 2  2:58:39  
Is brokerage for hft firm the same as retail. Absolutely, it is the same as retail in India. There is no benefit for HFT, unfortunately, brokerage is the same.

Unknown Speaker  2:58:55  
Guys. I hope the lecture was all right, yeah. I hope you know

Speaker 2  2:59:04  
you understood the different type of orders, how they interact with the order book. Yeah. I hope you understood how packing and discretion work, how you can figure out an iceberg, how the order book structure might tell you about short term movements, yeah, for retail, which is better? Or by definition, retail, you know retail would be MFT. So then we start working on the execution strategy. This is the start, right? I mean, again, we are building the blocks here, the base here, in my fifth lecture, I will do it. But again, this is the probability of fill. Is a flavor in the execution, right? How do you execute? How do you figure out where. Level you have to place your order at, right? So this is so this lecture was about orders, order book. My fifth lecture would be about, you know how to place. What are the different things that you have to keep in mind while placing the order, like the probability of fill.

Speaker 2  3:00:25  
How to place an order if the price reaches a higher level, okay, it depends upon the strategy, right here we just discussed which once you have the fair price, and this is execution, right? Once you have the fair price, what level do you have to place your order at? All right, okay, guys, thank you so much for your patience. You know, I thoroughly enjoyed the question that you had. I hope most of your questions were answered again, if not just shoot us an email, I'll make sure they are handled offline. All right. I hope the lecture was worth it. I will see you tomorrow with a hands on lecture on statistics. So it will be a continuation from my second lecture on statistics. It will be hands on lecture, so I will discuss, you know, random walk model that will discuss Monte Carlo simulations also, so again, one of my favorite lectures tomorrow. I'll see you then. All right. I hope you have a great day ahead. Thank you so much. Guys. Bye.

