Speaker 1  0:17  
So we are live. Thank you. Hello, everyone. I see that some of you are still going into the attendees room, so I will wait for a few seconds before I begin. In the meantime, if you have any questions about yesterday's workshop, please feel free to ask in the first few minutes. And also remember the homework exercise yesterday for this very simple strategy, which is to short GC future to harvest this contango and hedge the spot returned by long the GLT, and I asked you what the Sharpe ratio is. So if you have that number, please post it on the Q and A bar for those who come late, good afternoon, good evening, good morning. And like I said, I left you with a homework exercise yesterday, which is to calculate the Sharpe ratio of this extremely simple, short and whole strategy for the GC future. And I like to see if anyone has an estimate for that.

Speaker 1  1:40  
So Sharia says, a good question. He said, he understand contango and backwardation row returns. He find confusing? Well, back rotation is describing the sign of the row return. Back rotation just means that rule turns positive and contango means the world returns negative. So you can't possibly understand contango and degradation without understanding will return, right? So and row return, essentially, is a definition. There's not much to understand about it. Row return is defined as the difference between the total return of the future, and the spot return is a definition, as I have explained yesterday, in the case of the E Mini future, sometimes the row return can be calculated exactly, if you recall, In the ES future case, the raw return is exactly equal to the dividend minus the risk free rate due to an arbitrage argument. In the peso future, it is the difference between the maximum pace of future and the, I'm sorry, is the inch. Rate differential between the Peso and the US dollar. But in other cases, it could be more complicated, and we have to develop a statistical linear regression procedure or other estimation method to empirically estimate what the row return is. It's not as simple as analytical formula in other cases. So let me see.

Speaker 1  3:40  
Yeah, so that's the that's the definition, and also examples of row return and as and the intuition behind it. You can also recall the little story of John Maynard Keynes, row return in the case of an agricultural future, you can think of it as, what is the as, What is the incentive, what is the risk premium that you have to pay to the speculator to be on the other side of the trade from a commercial trader, In this case, the farmer, because we assume that this, we cannot predict the spot return. So the expected spot return is zero, right? So if we expect the spot return to zero, what's the incentive to long this future? What? What's the incentive for the speculators longest future? Well, that's the road return. You have to provide a risk premium to the speculator to buy or to sell this future that you can think of it also as a risk premium that is provided to the speculator. Okay, so. So it seems that no one has been able to compute a sharp ratio. Well, I will tell you that it is very easy in this case, right?

Unknown Speaker  5:16  
What is the analyzed return of holding a GC future, you could just

Speaker 1  5:27  
back test a buying whole strategy on the GC. You practically don't need anything you have learned in this course in order to back test it right. You just shot using the data that I provided you. And you know, short, you take the negative return negative analyze return of this future and and then subtract and then add the Analyze return of GLD, that's a very trivial back test, and then minus the 2% risk free rate. I can see, you know, if you want to take a look at the code, is also very easy. Let me see, where's the code, G, l, D, G, C is where the code is.

Speaker 1  6:17  
Of course, there are some data gymnastics you have to do and make sure that the data period match. But all that can be done by your favorite chatbot, LLM, so here you see the return is just the daily return of a GLT minus the daily return of the GC future. The GC future recall is already back adjusted. There's only one column to it. It's very trigger. Here. And so if you compute the average return and then you subtract the risk free rate, what do you get? You get this. The sharp ratio is almost zero. Would that surprise you? Should that be a surprise? Why and why not? If you say, if it doesn't surprise you explain. You know, if it surprised you, you know, nothing can be said, but what? Why doesn't? Why shouldn't it surprise you?

Speaker 1  7:17  
Well, Jay said, well, it shouldn't surprise you because it's a hedge? Well, there's a lot of hedge strategy that has very positive Sharpe ratio, right? I mean, most of the statistical arbitrageurs trade a strategy that has sharp ratio of 1.5 or even two, and they're all hedged. They don't have exposure to market index, or even some of the major factors. So just because it's a half, strategy should not give you a sharper issue of zero. But what is special about this strategy that give You give it a sharp ratio of zero? So

Speaker 1  8:22  
I Is there any risk in trading this strategy? What are the possible risk in trading strategy? What is the risk that this strategy will lose money? Anyone exactly heat got it discharged, has no risk. Why? Because GC is almost always famous last word of mathematician, almost always in contango. So when you shot it this, you almost never lose money and then the sport, I mean, I'm sorry, in terms of the role return, you never lose money, but the sport return is exactly, and I mean except to the some decimal places, exactly cancel by the Return of the GLD. So this strategy has no risk. In finance, when you tell people that, oh, this strategy has no risk, people will expect that your strategy return the risk free rate as the rate as the return, and therefore the Sharpe ratio, which measures the excess return. Right sharp ratio only measure excess return. In this case, the excess return is zero. So of course, the sharp ratio is zero, no risk, no return. That is how it works in trading. There's no free lunch in trading. You know, you people say, Well, this. Strategy has no market risk. It's market neutral. That's fine, but it still had other risk, right? Just because your strategy is hedged, it has no market risk, but it can still have idiosyncratic risk. By taking on those idiosyncratic risk, you are rewarded by some return, hopefully the average return is greater than the standard deviation return, in which case your Sharpe ratio is greater than one. But in this case, there's no risk at all. The idiosyncratic or factor risk at all, not none whatsoever. So you get a zero sharp ratio.

Speaker 1  10:37  
So there's some question. Is there a correlation between gold inflation and risk free return. That might be the case. It does. It does not have any reference to the profitability of this drug resource. I mean, it might affect the magnitude of the profitability, but it's still going to be the return is exactly risk free rate in any case. I mean, not exactly, but, you know close enough so that our sharp ratio is zero. And so indeed, Trader cannot make money on this strategy. So what can we do to modify this strategy? Maybe not on this particular instrument, in order to create a hedge strategy which does have return. Now, I have already told you this strategy yesterday, but some of you may not have noticed, what other pair of ETF and future can we construct so that we have the same characteristic as the GC versus GLT strategy. But it's not a perfect hedge. What future can we construct and what ETF can be used to hatch it? I mentioned it yesterday. I'll see if anyone remember. Yes, Jay said Okay, remember oil good, oil futures and hedge with, what? With ETF, with the XL ETF? Excellent. Somebody's listening. Thank you. That is the oil future versus XLE strategy indeed, and that's what we are going to backcast next. Now, in this exercise, the crude oil future is replaced by the ETF uso, and you say, wow, why? Well, that's because it's much easier to back test the USO, because uso, of course, has the same closing time. It's ETF has is traded on the same US stock market, you know, nicely, or NASDAQ as the XLE. So you can use the daily closing price to backcast instead of having to find intraday prices for the oil futures. That's a lot of hassle. So that's why I replace it with USO. So what's the composition exactly of USO? We discussed yesterday, uso underlying our oil futures. But that is not a complete description. Anyone know exactly what oil future? Because oil future can be the front contract can be back contract. How do they manage the role? You know, is it all front contract, and when do they roll? So let me ask you. You can ask your favorite LLM, what exactly is the composition of USO? Anybody? Is it the fund the back in what proportion? How do they roll? How do they roll forward when one contract expire, another exercise in getting your LLM at work? So Gaurav said, Yeah, oil futures contract and some cash equivalent. That's not a very precise answer. We know that it's called oil futures contract. Otherwise we wouldn't be using it as a proxy for oil future, right? But exactly which oil future are we talking about? Is it? Well, I know that we are talking about West Texas in the immediate CCL or future, not the not the other one, which I just escaped my mind. What was the other one? The North Sea, not the North Sea oil. That's fine. But still, even with tech, West Texas Intermediate WTI oil. Which contract do we hold in the USO? So Jay got it exactly the front month and the back month. And by the way, as the front as. The time goes on, so the front month expiration get closer and closer. The proportion that you are allocated the back month also increase. So there's always a constant duration, so that it is always, on average, about one month to expiration on average, right? So that's that's how they manage it. Every day you will change the proportion of the funded back months, so that the average

Speaker 1  15:31  
expiration is always one month away. That's how they manage the USO. You can think of it as a constant duration future contract, or in the fixed income language, but anyway, it's good enough as a proxy for crude oil future. It will work if this strategy work on uso, you can also use your own future to back test. It's no problem. So if the strategy is very simple, you short uso when it's in contango and buy XLE when it's in backwardation. But the question is,

Speaker 1  16:22  
what is the reason that? What is the time? How do you define? How do you compute whether CL is in back rotation or Durango?

Speaker 1  16:44  
How do you find out whether the crude oil is in contango or backwardation? That's the question anyone let's see which now notice is a little bit of a trick question we are not asking you the magnitude of the row return. You don't need to tell me the magnitude. I only want the sign. How do you know when the crude oil future is in contango or backwardation? You don't need to know the sign at the magnitude. Let me see, yes, and you shall have a good answer, one of them actually, at least you can, of course, go back to our corn future and plot the term structure and find out the slope whether it's positive. Okay, by the way, let me test ask you if the slope of the term structure is positive. Is it in contango back rotation? That's one way that the brute force way, brute force way.

Speaker 1  17:57  
Yes, negative slope is a is a backwardation? That's correct, yes, but Hazim slope is contango. Imagine, got it? Yeah. Okay, good. You remember that? Excellent, excellent. But there is a simpler way, because to do this regression every day is a lot of work. I mean, of course, you can write programs do it, but still, it's a complex program. It's an easier way to do it, which Carlos has suggested, which is simply, you just need to compare the spot price with the future price. If the spot price is higher than the future price, are we in contango reputation? If sport let me, let me, let me write down,

Speaker 1  18:49  
if the spot is higher than the future, is it contango or packaging?

Speaker 1  19:05  
Back rotation every everybody got it, excellent, excellent. So, yeah, so that's easy, right? So you don't have to do any linear regression. You just need to find out what the spot price is, or if you don't have spot price, you know, if you buy it from CSI data, yes, you get a spot price. But many other future vendor will just or even if you buy directly from the CME, they will only tell you future price. You don't know what the spot price is. So equivalently, you can say what compare the front contract with the back contract, front versus back, you get the same sign. You don't get the same magnitude, but you get the same sign. So you compare the front contract with the back contract. Is the same and that is also but in both cases, you get a back gradation. Vice versa for content. So that's much easier, right? Just compare the front and back contract so in that. But in any case, you cannot just have the back adjust the continuous contract data. So I give you this data set which you might see, you might recall, or actually you might see, let me clear the workspace first. If you go to the input, Cl, data, I don't know that I've shared with you before, but I

Speaker 1  21:06  
so that's the CL data. So it has all the future contract which you can use here. You also have the last column, which is, of course, the spot price. You can see the symbol for the last column. Oh, no. Actually, no, I got rid of the last column for you already. So there's no small price, but you can clearly use these, the front contract and the fair contract. So let's just focus on the last day. Do you think that for the last day of this time series of this future data, are we in contango backwardation?

Speaker 1  22:03  
Are we in contango packaging? Given the last day? Tantango? Correct, correct, correct. Thank you. So here's the data, and also you have the original ETF data in the in this data set input data ETF, right? That's the data that has many columns that give you many ETF prices, including uso and XE. So I invite you to give it a try back. Test this strategy. You will find something very surprising. And this strategy, by the way, it's very powerful and and I think it is well worth your time to extend this back test to the most recent date and see if it work in recent years. But anyway, I will let you see if you can back test this strategy, given this data set, and let's take 10 minutes for this back test.

Speaker 1  23:19  
Meanwhile, there are some questions I can answer while, while you're working on the back test, is it quantitative possible to profit from the spread between ah, Sharia said a very good question. What he's describing is a calendar spread strategy. I will, I will talk about it later on in the course. But there are ways that you can profit from a Canada special strategy, but it's not as trivial as you might think. It is not trivial. There's some nuance in profiting from a calendar specialty. You might think that a candidate special strategy would be excellent, right? Because why? Well, you have a perfect hedge between of the spot return your long one month and short another month. So the sport return is completely zero. So all you enjoy is the row return. But the problem is, what if the row return not the same, then you get zero. So there's some nuance there we will discuss later on. For now, please take a shot at this strategy, which is one of the strategies that you can take from this course that might actually work very profitably, even beyond the back test period. I have noted the back test and in 2012 so you have 14 years of out of sample data. If you can make this work in sample period, you have 14 years of out of sample period to see if this strategy actually work. I haven't tried because I don't want to bias it, but I strongly believe. That there is offering it out of sample. So I strongly urge you to pay attention to this particular strategy.

Speaker 1  28:30  
Question from Jay XLE and USO. I'm not quite sure what the question is actually, Jay, maybe you can elaborate on your question.

Speaker 1  28:49  
Oh, cut it. Asked where you can find this file? Please ask the quant instill support sub. They should have shared a folder with you already, so if you can't find it, please message coin, instill support.

Speaker 1  29:13  
Yes, these are the tickers, uso and Excel. E, this is the trading instrument. Let me see if I can right. But to get it the signal, you need to have the data for Cl in order to determine whether it's in contango gravitation. But what you actually trade is those, are those ETFs?

Speaker 1  29:59  
Exactly Jay. You need the CL, because otherwise, how do you how can you tell whether it's in containment backwardation, right? You uso is an ETF. It doesn't have contango back with it. You can tell from the price data. You can only tell within backwardation of contango if you have both the front and back month contract separately, which I have provided in the CL futures data. Now you might say, well, if I have the futures data, why do I need to? Why do I Why do I need to back as USO? Why couldn't I just backcast the futures? What's the answer to that? Can you just scratch the USO data and say, Oh, why don't I just trade a CL versus xe using this data? What's the problem with that?

Speaker 1  31:13  
What's the problem of that? We described it yesterday. Remember, what is the problem of back testing daily data from a ETF and the future.

Speaker 1  31:36  
We discussed that in the context of, well, not yet. Yet. We discuss it in the context of the GLD and the GC trading strategy, the same argument applied to the CL versus XLE strategy, there is going to be a problem if you just use the daily data to back test this strategy,

Speaker 1  32:08  
the time snapshot garage Got it. Thank you. Thank you, excellent. The problem is that the G, the Excel E, daily data is captured at 4pm Eastern Time, as with every other stock and ETF in the US that's when the market close. But the USO data episode, the CL market, the oil futures market, does not end at four o'clock. Can you anyone ask your chat bot When? When is the settlement price taken at the forge? CL, I don't remember it myself. What is the what is the time that this settlement price of the CL, future are obtained? When is that obtained? In other words, when does the regular trading session end in the CL market? You can ask your favorite chat bot about that.

Speaker 1  33:17  
Now Sharia says, well, instead of uso, can I back test a back adjusted continuous contract future? No problem. No. Actually, there's still a problem, because the back adjusted continuous contract is still captured using the settlement price, but just because you eliminated the price gap doesn't order the time that those prices are are captured, so you still have a difference in in time with the XLE, so you still cannot use it. It doesn't matter that you have back, adjusted it or and eliminated the price gap. That's not the issue. You

Speaker 1  34:03  
so excellent. It's not 5pm 5pm is the maximum the Forex futures my end 5pm but for crude oil, as manjunas has discovered, it is using 2:30pm Eastern Time. Price. 230 is when the crude oil future price is obtained, versus 4pm for Excel, you cannot use crude oil future daily prices to back test this strategy. You can, if you have intraday prices, of course you can. You can find out the intraday prices, because the electronic market for crude oil is still open at 4pm so Yeah, feel free to use the intraday prices at 4pm or conversely, if you have intraday prices for XL Yi, you can also use the 230 XL y prices and back test against the daily price of the few. Sure that is fine, but you need the intraday prices of one of this instrument which we don't have, which we don't have, so it's better and much easier to use USO.

Speaker 1  35:17  
And as managers have clearly identified. The settlement price is using VWAP of the last two minutes of the regular trading session. 228 to 230 is when they use that period for the VWAP. But the actual publication of the settlement price is at 230 so you can you won't get that price until 230 they start to collect data for that price at 230 but they only publish it at 230 so that is the price that is obtained. You do live trading that you have to wait until 230 to get that price because that otherwise won't be published yet. Okay, so very good. I'm glad you answer asked all these questions. So there's a you know, before you plunge into back testing a strategy, you need to understand the data. You need to understand the nuances. So it's all very good questions. So now that we have settled all these questions, I invite you to back test this strategy. We'll give you another 10 minutes for that. And anyone who has, you know, computed the Sharpe ratio, or you can compute the average return, or you computed the equity curve, just post it on the at last part. Well, if you have the equity curve, you can post it, but you just tell us that, hey, I got the angry curve, and then we can move on. Okay, so I want to take 10 minutes for everyone to catch up on this very important strategy. You.

Speaker 1  43:38  
Remember, you don't need to actually program this back test program yourself. You can ask your LLM to do it in teaching the Gen AI course last month, I asked people to back test complicated generative AI program using LM, and typically it take them like five one minute to get the back test done so you don't have you no longer need to code yourself. You just need to instruct your program to get this data and back test it. Of course, the program has to be written in MATLAB because the data is stored in a dot map format. But who cares, right? You You know, the RM can program. It can split up program in any language. Doesn't have to be any Python or owl, you know, spit out the MATLAB program so we can back test it. You.

Speaker 1  48:00  
Um, Since no one seems to have been able to compute answer yet, let me try to understand what the difficulty is. What is the bottleneck in getting this data, writing the program, asking your LLM to write the program and run it is there a particular obstacle that you encounter in this pathway? Because when I teach these courses, live in, for example, last month at the Imperial College London, people generally are able to get answers in a matter of within five minutes. Let me put it that way within five minutes. So in the online context, I cannot look over your shoulder, so I could not pinpoint exactly what the difficulty is. So if you share your difficulty, I will be able to help you overcome them. If you don't share, we will just be stuck here all day and waiting because I insist that everyone should be able to run this back test. Otherwise you have learned not you are not getting your money worth from me. Let me put it this way. Okay, so and you should share. Thank you. You do not need to convert it to Python. Let me put it this way. It should all be done in MATLAB. And you say, Well, I don't know MATLAB. You don't need to know MATLAB. Your LLM knows MATLAB. That's enough, right? You should do everything in MATLAB. And you say, Well, I don't have MATLAB install my best desktop. Wait a minute. Quan is still share a license with you. Why don't you have my lab on your desktop? Right? So that's not a problem. So please, any other problem, any obstacles we can walk through it, because I insist. In previous you know, I've taught this workshop for practically 10 years, I think, almost 10 years. And in every class, people are able to get me answers by hook or quote. So I do not accept the situation where no one is able to compute an answer, it can't be right we you know, before they were there was no LM, and they were still able to compute answer, and most of them don't know a thing about MATLAB. Most of them don't know nothing about MATLAB. Then, yet they can compute the answer. So I will not accept a situation where no one can compute the answer in this class, please. If you need help, you do not need the whole process of how to do this back test. Is something that you should ask your LM, right? So you, instead of asking me to describe the whole process, you should ask your LM, how do I back test a strategy where I have this data, describe the data in some detail, and you say, Well, how do I compute the contango and back rotation using this data? And you can also explain the way you compute contango is, if the back future, a back contract is higher than the front contract, that contango you can explain everything, teach your LM, whatever I taught you, you go ahead and teach your LM in English, right? What? What we have discussed so far, explain to them in English, and explain to them the data that you have, the data structure that you have, and ask your LM to write the MATLAB code. So, if your LM say, Well, I don't understand this then and then, you cannot answer, you know, sometimes LLM booth will come back to you and say, Well, you know, I don't understand what you're saying. What? What's your what's the matrix that you're inputting, and you yourself couldn't understand it. Then you can ask in this Q and A board, oh, the LM, come back with a question, how should I answer it? Then we can have a conversation. It is not acceptable where we just sit here and do nothing, right? So please have a conversation. If you cannot get an LM to answer your question, come back and answer but you cannot say that. Well, I don't know how to instruct my LM, please describe the complete procedure, because we have just described the complete procedure. The complete procedure is find out whether it's in contango or back rotation on each day in order to generate buy and sell signal, but on XLE and uso, that is the procedure

Speaker 1  52:57  
to convert that into code you need to ask your LM to do. So, Okay, wonderful. Manny Camden has got an answer out of it. Thank you. Thank you. This is the first numerical answer I get out of so far at this course. So excellent. Thank you very much. So let's take a look. I'll give everyone else just two more minutes okay to ask this question. I don't want to preempt them. But like I said, in the past 10 years of teaching this course, four times a year, there are people have been able to compute answers in life, and they, most of them done so, have done so without even the help of Chatbot. Nowadays, with chatbot, there's no excuse whatsoever in not being able to compute a numerical answers. So manukain, thank you very much for making that effort. But I will give the rest of us a bit more time to see If there are any obstacles that I can help overcome.

Speaker 1  54:30  
By the way, the sharp ratio of one sounds sounds correct. You not only made an effort to compute an answer, but the answer is also correct. That's that's double congratulations.

Speaker 1  54:49  
Let's see if the rest of us also got something.

Speaker 1  56:04  
Okay, so there's a question. Good, good. I see there are some questions.

Speaker 1  56:13  
There's an issue with data. Well, the data is clearly identified here, and the data for the cooldown futures. Let me highlight this is here. This is the data for the cooldown futures. Take a look, open it in MATLAB, and the data for the ETF is here. Is clearly identified. So you should look for those. And if you say, Well, I don't know how to upload them, well, easy enough. That's double click it. Once you open MATLAB, you if you see those data point, point the folder I showed you yesterday, point your explorer into that folder and find that file, and just double click it, you will, you will be able to upload the data into MATLAB. So Carlos identified the strategy even got a better sharp ratio. Excellent, excellent. Now let me ask Carlos, it's great that you are able to do it in Python, but how does the Python read this matlab file? Can you share, maybe for the benefit of the rest of us? How do you manage to convert this dot mat file that I gave you into a format or, you know, CSV, or whatever text format, such that your Python program can read it, maybe the way that you did it can. Can help the others and Jay got a sharp ratio, point nine, six, close enough, good enough. Yep,

Speaker 1  57:55  
yep. Charades just posted, I guess the response from the LM, that's not what we're looking for. We're looking for a numerical answer, right? So it's it's no point to wax philosophical. The LM should not just tell you the philosophy of this strategy. We all know this philosophy of this strategy. We want to know the answer, numerical answer. What's the Sharpe ratio? Okay?

Speaker 1  58:31  
Some of you get a sharp reach of 1.88 that seems high, but perhaps you are back testing a different period, the good period. So, Ah, I see So Carlos, you didn't use the MATLAB file. That's good, but you download data from why finance does why finance provide you with individual futures contracts data historically otherwise, how do you determine degradation versus contango? Let me ask Ah, okay, graph, use saeed.io to read the data and.net Excellent. Thank you. Thank you for that. Excellent. I didn't know that you have a sci fi program that you can read.net file, wonderful. Thank you for sharing. Fang. Fang got the job ratio 1.052 wonderful. Okay, everybody is on the same page. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So let me show you what I got. Okay, this is the equity curve. I'm sure you will get the same if you get a similar plot ratio. This is a very interesting equity curve. There's a lot to unpack here. The first to unpack is most of the return, as you can see, come from here, Where is Maya.

Speaker 1  1:00:02  
What? What is that period? Anybody guess what's that period that has this amazing return? Let me do it better. It's just

Speaker 1  1:00:16  
oops. Problem with this. There's a bit of a latency today, well yesterday as well. I can't really, yeah, okay, highlight is better. What is the period of time? Any guesses?

Speaker 1  1:00:50  
The financial crisis, except exactly 28 so during the financial crisis, this strategy return more than 120% if you are trading this strategy that you'll be the hero. Actually, it happened. I was with a hedge fund in in Toronto at that time. Actually, I left a hedge fund that I worked for a hedge fund in Toronto, but I left before 2008 and in 2008 they traded some similar momentum strategy and make not, maybe not 120% make a huge return, and they suddenly go from 100 million fund to a billion dollar fund. Because everybody thought they were genius, right? So, but it's they are not genius, because this is well established, that momentum strategy generate outsized return during crisis. That is a well known fact. That's the reason many people trade momentum strategy is they generate return during periods of crisis. You can call it a tail head strategy. You can call it an alpha crisis. Alpha strategy, right? And in 2008 it generate 120% return. Why do you think that it's short XLV, or is short uso in that period? Anyone? Anyone think which which instrument we were shorting?

Speaker 1  1:02:26  
Uso, exactly. Jay, it was shorting, cool, and it was long. XLV, so amazing. People said, Oh, you must be making this 120% return because you're short stock, right? Because everybody know the stock market crash in two times a wrong this strategy actually was long. Stocks. Can you believe it? It was long Excel year, and it made 120% return because it was long Excel you but it was short. Could all, could all drop more than XL, Yi. Now fast forward to 2020, some of you mentioned it could all get negative prices. Surely uso is going to drop to zero. Do you think this month, this strategy would make money in 2020 Do you think so? Well, if you ask me for to a bet, I will bet that it makes more than 120% because even in 2008 could all didn't drop to zero, but 2020 could all drop to zero. Be my guest. Test this strategy in 2020 at least. I you know, maybe you will get 300% return, right? So if those people who have taken my course breach for 2020, and really pay attention and really back test this strategy and really trade this strategy, live with their bells and whistle. Of course, I'm not suggesting you should trade it as is, but always add your bells and whistle sub laws, at least sub law, profit cap or whatever, parameter optimization, hedging, risk management, capital allocation, optimization, you name it. There's all manner of way to improve the strategy. But if they've been trading it, you know, because I've been teaching this course prior to 2020 if they were really interested in strategy and traded in 2020 they could have retired already. They're gone. You won't hear from them. They are in Bali. They're in Bahamas. They're in you know, some beautiful Greek Isle enjoying their life, I can assure you now, why? Why didn't I retire? But because I didn't trade this strategy life, I particularly preserve this strategy as a teaching tool, so that you know you can enjoy because if I know this strategy is profitable in 2020 I would just stop trade teaching it, right? So I will give up teaching, no, I did not back test it, so that it remain a genuine surprise for you when you back test it, okay? And. Genuine out of sample now, but it's all good that it generates amazing return. But what about this period afterwards? It has a pretty painful draw down for, I don't know, 500 days, maybe two years, that draw down is also very typical of momentum strategy. It even has a name. The name of this drawdown is called Momentum crash is a name given to it by the Professor Kent Daniel at the Columbia Business School, momentum crash. Every momentum strategy after it generate outsized return during the crisis, suffer a period of momentum crash that can be quite painful. Now, unfortunately, in this strategy, the momentum crash didn't give up all the game. So, hey, it gave up. I don't know what how much 30% gain? Hey, we made 120% give back 30% it's a good bargain, right? But it's painful. Nevertheless you don't want and it actually happened also to the fund that I work for after they became heroes in 2008 and AUM, go to a mere billion dollar afterwards, not during the crisis. Unfortunately, after the crisis. Well, they did then suffer this drawdown. But unfortunately it we it basically eliminated the company. It crashed the company. Because why? It is often the case that people invest in a crisis after strategy, after the crisis, not before the crisis. So before the crisis, they may be investing 100 200 million and made this 120% return and became hero. And then the asset goes up to 1 billion. And then after everybody invested, they suffered a momentum crash down, you know, 30% whatever. But this is 30% of 1 billion, not 30% of 100 million. So they made maybe 120% in 100 million. You know, go make 100 million, but

Speaker 1  1:07:19  
they are down 300 million afterwards, you do the math. And that is also very typical. People who are not sophisticated in finance do not understand the risk return profile of a momentum strategy. They always make money in a crisis, so you have to trade it before the crisis, and you have to suffer losing bets, because before the crisis, there's no money to be made oftentimes in the momentum strategy, but you are hoping that it will make this triple digit return in the crisis, and then afterwards, you cannot invest in momentum strategy after the crisis is over, because then you will suffer momentum crash. It will give back maybe 1/3 of the game, but if you invest afterwards, you have no gain but all pain. So that is the problem, so that hedge fund no longer exists because of exactly this profile. So this is not a a fiction, it's not theory, it's not academic. It actually involve pain and tears. Joy and tears is embedded by this strategy. I have seen it in real life, how a misunderstanding of momentum strategy give rise to tears that well, the principal are doing okay. They took them in, in Sanofi, and some of them live in Switzerland, some of them live in the Cayman Islands. They they're doing okay. Don't worry for the manager, because they take incentive fee, but you should feel sorry for the investor that invested after the crisis is over. Okay? So the question is, how do we deal with this momentum crash? Well, we will discuss it later. But, well, I was planning to discuss it later, but let me put it this way. One way to prevent it is that after the crisis over, well, it's easy, said and done. What does it mean by crisis over? One you can you can say, Well, if the market volatility goes back to normal, or the fix, which is the subject of the next strategy, go back to normal. You can say, well, the crisis is over. You can stop trading this strategy. That's one way. The other way is to say that, well, at the very least, stop trading the short side after the crisis is over. Just keep a long position. Do not short, uso, do not short Exactly. Just take the long side of the trade. Try it right? This is the whole point of this course is that we are not giving you a string graph strategy. Otherwise, I don't have to teach. I just put, I already put this strategy in the book, right? And you just buy my. Joke and go away. But what you're supposed to do is try this different way. And that is a good question. So yes, how do we prevent this drawdown? I said one, you can stop trading it when the Formula Three of the market goes back down to normal. Second, you can stop trading at least the short side of it, either long Excel longer, uso, but don't short, don't hedge it, right? And the third way is, you know, implement the stop loss. If there's a loss, don't, don't trade. But that is much more difficult. I don't think that will work, frankly. Okay, so the first two is what people recommend, and that there's a fourth way, which is to also simultaneously trade the mean reference strategy. Mean reference strategy has the exact opposite with return profile from a momentum strategy. It loses money during the crisis and make money in the in the recovery period, which has the opposite return we will find we will this. Will discuss a strategy like that. So that's the fourth way, is to trade both a momentum and the minimum strategy so that you get a return profile that may not make you 120% but it has a much higher, Sharpe ratio and much more steady. There's no such a big drawdown. That's another way. Okay, so that's, that's, I'm glad you brought it up. So it's a early preview. Okay, so, all good, all good. So let's see. There's one last question about this strategy. Like i said, i If you don't back, test it going forward, and if you don't trade it, live this kind of strategy, when you discover that the 15 year out of sample back has works, is your loss. Okay, you have wasted your money for today and maybe other courses. You need to make your money worth

Speaker 1  1:11:57  
by trading this and back, testing it and improving it. So question, we need to test it in various marketing condition pick the idea. Well, that is indeed the case, yes. And Anusha actually suggested another way. Can we build a regime model to tell us what is a good regime for momentum and what is a good regime for mean reversion? Indeed, you can now that is actually the fundamental assumption behind my startup predict. Now.ai, right. We believe that we can detect the regime for every single strategy. Is it good or bad? Is it going to be a good day or bad day for this strategy? And you decide whether to trade it or not. So you can use machine learning. And so, you know, I suggested, maybe you can look at the volatility, but for other strategy, maybe volatility is not the determining factor. Who knows what the determining factor? We use machine learning to find out. How can you predict the regime whether it's favorable or not favorable to the strategy and then decide whether to trade that is definitely another way. So there are many ways to improve this strategy, including a regime prediction model using machine learning that is correct. And how do we make our strategy dynamic so intrusive? Yeah, exactly. That's what you can do if you have a regime switching model that you build, that we build for you, for example, you can find that out dynamically. You can switch between different model, you know, every week, or even every day. I don't recommend every day, you know, maybe every week. Markov model, yes, one way is certainly a Markov model. We have built similar models, latent variable models on the SPX, not on the crude oil futures, okay, on the SPX. But if you ask us to build on crude oil, we can so building out already have a product that detect the regime in the SPX. You know to switch from whether allocating equity or not. Similarly, you can build it on a particular strategy if you need to. Okay, so some people ask, can we use contango and backwardation based on daily closes to get a bias for next day? I don't know that. What? Yes, I mean, contango and backgradation certainly can be an input, for sure. Yes, you can use that as an input to a machine learning program. I don't know that just using contango back rotation would be a good enough risk indicator, regime indicator for this strategy, right? I don't know that, but it's a good idea, and I'm glad we brought it up, back test it, try it, right? That's a good idea. That's the whole point of this workshop is to brainstorm people, different people have different ideas. I have some ideas, but I I'm very excited to hear from your ideas. And so a using backwardation as a predictive mechanism. Some for whether this strategy work. Could work back, has it? How do you identify regime dynamically? As I said, Jay had mentioned, hmm, hidden Markov model. There are other deep latent variable model. Go to my blog. As I said, you should check my blog for the latest information. Go to my blog, and I would suggest another way this beyond going way beyond his marker model. And i i in my blog, I also describe how we use traditional AI, namely, like regression tree, classification tree, to identify regime in a scheme that we call corrective AI, right corrective AI means we want to correct the wrong signals. That's another way you can dynamically identify regime. Okay, excellent. Okay, let's move on then to a new strategy. So, strategy that is problem. Well, indeed, there is the case of the fixed future. First of all,

Unknown Speaker  1:16:19  
what is fixed? Anyone know what is fixed? What is fixed?

Speaker 1  1:16:27  
Anyone heard of the fixed index? Can you explain what the fixed index is? Yes, fixed is the policy index. But how is it computed? The computing is this so you have a bunch of SPX stocks, right? So you have stocks, right? And these stocks form an index called SPX, and on this index you impose options on the index. There are options on SPX index, and from these options, you can compute the implied volatility right. If you have option, you can comply compute implied volatility. So the fixed index is a weighted average of the implied volatility for near the money puts and costs on the SPX options. It's a mouthful, but that's what it is. So the options in pipe volatility, let me call it weighted average, weighted average of implied volatility. Give you the fixed so fixed measure the in privateity of near, near the money put and cost that are, I believe, is one month expiration, one month, on average, one month expiration that give you Fixed. Fixed typically range from, I don't know, 10% at the low end to Hey. Sometime it reach 100% it happened before, but typically it hover around 10 to 15% in normal times and in in heightened tension, it can go up to 20 or 30% in extreme scenario, it had gone up to 100% before. It's a huge range. So what's beauty? Well, how do we trade a fix? Can you trade a fix? Can you buy or sell a fix? Anyone? He said, Oh, I believe the volatility is going to increase. Let me buy some fix. Can you do that?

Speaker 1  1:18:38  
RF said that volatility of SBA, why with one month future? That's not correct. Actually, the fixed index has nothing to do with futures. It is purely to do with options. There's no futures involved so far, so far. We will get to the Future Part later, but, but it, the fixed index itself has nothing to do with futures. So but let me ask you, yes, sure, yes, you have found my blog Excellent. Yes, that's the one that talk about regime shift. It actually is a link to my other blog, which is the focus on the deep learning and and the book. But yes, it is. It is this block that has everything. It provides links to other of my writings as well. How do we how do we trade fix? Yes, indeed, Jane, you everybody got the right idea you cannot directly buy or sell fix. Fix is an index, just like you cannot directly buy SPX index, but just as the SPX index, you can buy ETF on the fix. What is the ETF on fixed means well for the spy holding the. SPX index. That's easy. The Spy whole a bunch of socks that are in the SPX index, and they are with a correct capital allocation. But if you buy a fixed ETF, that's not the same you did fixed ETF does not contain fixed options. That's a very important notion. You cannot, in any practical way, reproduce the fixed index by buying a portfolio of options. And the reason for that is quite interesting. I discuss it in my option. Course, the reason for that is that, you know, for the fixed, for the SPX index, the portfolio constitution is fixed almost it will last almost a month or longer, right? You have, you know, Nvidia down to the small, the smallest company is pretty fixed. I mean, occasionally, once a month, or twice a month, they might add or remove a stock, but they don't change very often. So you know exactly, okay, I buy this portfolio of stock, it will be closely related to SBX, and then when it add or subtract a stock, okay, well, we subtract the stock index rebalancing, not so with a ETF that try to mimic the fixed index. Because, why? Because of the definition of that index is that it has to be at the money, near the money options with a one month expiration. Well, unfortunately, the SPX, the underlying price index by changes every second. What is at the money at 9:30am is no longer at the money at 10am what is at the money at 10am is no longer at the money at 11am so how can you create a portfolio that with the index portfolio that changes every minute is impossible. You can go crazy. You know, it's a very you have to actively trade this portfolio crazy. Now, even if you actively trade this portfolio crazy, the resulting return profile of this portfolio is very, very different from the fixed index, because the fixed index is a static snapshot of the option in pipe volatility of every snapshot. It does not include the P and L from holding this portfolio from one minute to the other. So even if you create a dynamic portfolio that every minute trying to mimic the fixed index, you will get a return profile that is completely different. In other words, you cannot buy and sell the fixed index in any way. That is the key lesson. But what people do is, well, I can create a future that tracks the VX index. This is an index, and this is a future with the underlying of the fixed index, right? The undersport price of the fixed future is the fixed index, no problem. But that's does it mean that? But what is the total return of the fixed future compared to the total return of fixed index? What's the name of that difference?

Speaker 1  1:23:35  
What's the name of the difference between the total return of the fixed future and the fixed index. What's the generic name for that? And by the way, some people mentioned the fixed ETF, such as VSD, V, IX, M and so forth. Those ETF, they do nothing but hold a fixed future. They all based on the future. They cannot be based on the index itself, because there are no way of replicating the index return in a VTF. They are all tracking the future. They might compose the future in different way. One might use the one month future and three month future. One might only invest in the three month future. One might invest in a mixture, whatever. But they are all based on the fixed future. So the question is, let me ask you, let's see if you're paying attention, what is the name of the difference in return between the fixed future and the fixed index? What's the generic name for that return? Some people call it basis, but we use a different terminology in this course. So row return. And Anusha got it, roll return. Nikolai got it. Nick Nicolai said yes, off. It is called none other than the row return. Thank you very much. You are. Been some of you have been paying attention that's none other than the row return. It's white on the screen. Here is the return of the fixed future minus the return of the fixed index. So

Speaker 1  1:25:23  
that's it. And lo and behold, what a spectacular row return it has. Row return typically is minus 50% not plus 50% minus 50% is usually in strong contango. Now, Can anybody give me an intuition? Because some of you asked for intuition. What's the intuition behind this huge negative, low return? If you think in terms of the underlying the options, you know right now we have a futures, but these futures is based on an index that hold in private volatility. It hold options you're trying to track the this, this bunch of options. What is the intuition behind this negative 50% row? Return in terms of the the options, Greeks, what is the relevant option? Greek that might cause this negative 50% so?

Speaker 1  1:26:33  
Let me see, there's some answer here. Not no rho and gamma. Theta Anderson got it. Theta, my friend, think about it. Some people think, oh, you know, I want to hedge my forest. Lee, so I buy fixed I buy the fixed index. Well, if it is so and the fixed index doesn't move. Let's say, you know, for for one month for TV, main constant fix is stuck at 15, right? And you are buying fix, and then suddenly the fix go to 30 because of a, you know, crisis. And you, you in theory, make a lot of money. Well, if it were that simple, no one will lose money in the market, right? You buy fix, and the fix doesn't move, and you don't lose any money, and then suddenly the fix jump, and you make a whole bunch of money. If life is so simple, everybody will be wealthy. You know, nobody need to do anything else. Wait for the crisis to come. Just hold a fix in that not so simple as I said, You cannot buy fixed you can only buy the fixed future. But when you buy the fixed future, and even if the fix doesn't move, you're losing 50% a year. What? Where does that come from? Why am I losing 50% a year? Well, think about it, if instead of buying the fixed future, you're buying a bunch of options. Let's say, in the ideal scenario, the SPX index doesn't change. Okay, so no worries about changing the ATM or OTM, whatever is stuck at the same level. The volatility doesn't change. Nothing changes. Fixed doesn't change. SPX doesn't change, and you're holding a bunch of options that mimic the fixed portfolio. Does that mean that no pain and no gain, no loss and no gain? Wrong? If you're holding a bunch of options, even if nothing changes, you're losing money every day. Why you got theta. There's a time decay in the option premium. Even if the market doesn't change, even if the in private, it doesn't change, you're still losing money day in and day out. There's theta in the option. And that theta translate into this minus 50% row return so they are. That's the fundamental intuition behind the negative, behind the contango of the fixed future. There is no free lunch. You cannot hope to buy some fixed future and just wait for the prices to happen and profit from it. No, you got to pay dearly. Pay dearly for the insurance that you earn that you bought. Okay, but on the flip side, what if we are risk taker? What if we say, well, prices come once in every few years, but meantime, I want this 50% I want to earn this 50% maybe if I earn enough of this 50% I will overcome the loss due to a crisis, right? You can have that mentality, and that's exactly what this strategy is about. How do we do this? But safely? We don't want to be bankrupt. We want to have a hatch on the spot change when the fix go from 15 to 40. To 50 to 6200, we don't want to be killed. We want it to be we want to spot, return to be hatched, at least maybe not the road. We want sport return to be hedged. How do we do that? Just like in the XLE uso strategy, just as in the GC, GLD strategy, we want to find something that is highly correlated with the sport return, in this case, the fixed return. And good thing is that there is one, ready made one, and it's our very old friend, our very old friend, the ES future.

Speaker 1  1:30:40  
The ES future is highly correlated, or you can more correctly describe as anti correlated with the fixed index. In fact, the correlation is a stunning negative 75% I don't know where else you can find this highly correlated future, except for, you know, things that are in the same market. But here, these are not the same market. One is a futures market. One is the soft market, one is the option market. They are not completely the same, but they have a huge amount of anti correlation, 75% highly significant. And by the way, yes, it has no role return of its own, very little why would the world return is, remember dividend minus interest rate, practically 1% forget about it. We're talking about 1% versus 50% so you can ignore the row, return of E Mini. And so we are using yes to hatch the row, return the spot, return of VX. In other words, you're using ES to hatch the fixed index, return. So let me ask you, supposing that I'm you know that VX isn't contango, which it is. Most of the time I short VX. How should I position my E, meaning long or short? Let's say I have shorted one contract of VX. How much should I? What should I do with the Yes, long, short, how much? So some one of you say, sell the future, which is Vx, and buy the fixed ETF. That is not going to work at neutral. You have fall into the same track as we discussed yesterday, the fixed ETF holds nothing but the VX future. If you are selling the future in one case and buying the fixed ETF on aggregate, case you get zero, because the fixed ETF is the fixed future. Essentially, it's just like, Oh, I'm going to short the cooldown future, but I'm going to buy uso VTF, you get zero because uso ETF holds nothing but the cooler future. It doesn't hold something else that won't work. Jay said, okay, yeah, we can use spy. Yes, true instead of Yes. Future, you can use spy, but hey, why you spy when you have future? Why? Because spy actually cost you money. You know you you have funding cost for trading spy, whereas trading yes future, it doesn't have funding cost. You don't actually need to put down too much cash. You can leverage 10 times. Whereas if you trade this spy, you can leverage at most three times or four times intraday. So why use by when you can use E minute? So let's stick to E minute. So the question is, when you're short VX future, because it's in contango, are you going to long or short e minute?

Speaker 1  1:33:36  
So some of you say, will you short fee X and buy? Yes, that is not correct. Think about it. If you remember that yes is anti correlated with the fix. So if you are short fixed, you are short fix and you are long Yes, you essentially is also short fixed because you have the high anti correlation, you are not hedging anything. I want you to think about it. You have to short Yes, as a PHMC Ramsey has correctly pointed out, when you are shorting the fixed index, you also have to short the yes in order to hedge the spot return, this fixed return sell both or buy both. That is very different from the pair trading that you are familiar with, probably you're familiar with buy Microsoft and short Google, buy axon and short Chevron. That kind of pair trade, that is not what we're happening here. In those cases, the two assets are correlated. In this case, the two assets, two instruments, are anti correlated, so you have to buy both, or short both. The question is, how much, if you are shorting one fixed fee? Sure how many contracts of ES do you need to show up? How do you find out anyone that's called a hedge ratio? By the way, that is called hedge rate. Sometimes it's called beta, but it's inject. Is called a hedge ratio. How do you find this hedge ratio? And any suggestion,

Speaker 1  1:35:31  
yes, short, fix and short, yes, correct Jay or long both. If it's in graduation, feel free to long both. Then nobody said the fix has to be short. It can be long sometime when it's in packetation regression, color says correct regress VX, the hedge ratio, you know, is like VX is beta, yes, right. That's that, that you claim. So you can find beta by regression. But remember what I mentioned, the cardinal sin of data science. What's the cardinal sin of data science that I I mentioned yesterday? Anyone remember the cardinal sin? What should you do before running a regression, especially if you only have two variables,

Speaker 1  1:36:37  
what should you do before you run a regression, not a back test. Yes, the Carnot scene is regression without looking nicotine Correct. Scatter Plot. Exactly. That's what we're going to do. Thank you may neck scatter plot. So let's do a scatter plot. You're welcome to do it, but in the interest of time, let me do it for you. Here is the scatter plot between ES and VX. I should have ported between vx and versus VX can be on the vertical axis. I should have done that. But hey, it was done before. So it's the same. Would you fit a linear regression to this data set? If not, what would you have done? By the way, this cluster, you can see that it breaks into two cluster. This cluster is this period. You might call it the pre financial crisis period. Great financial crisis pre and this is the post GFC period. What would you have done if you are presented with this data set? Do you want to just fit a straight line through them? What would you propose we do? You

Speaker 1  1:38:05  
If you feed a straight line through them, I'll show I'll show you what might look might the curve look like? The curve would look like this. The straight line will look like this. The slope of that curve is neither here nor there. It doesn't look like a good representation of the slope of the hedge ratio at all. Right, so better not do that. Better not fit the whole thing. What would you suggest we do? I

Speaker 1  1:38:45  
Well, some people suggest using as SVM to classify them. Well, you don't need that sophisticated. You can buy board already. You know that one cluster is pro financial crisis. One is P financial crisis. It doesn't win you a Nobel Prize to say that we should just fit the straight lines through the post crisis cluster. Forget about the pre crisis cluster. This is as clear a regime Shift as you can get in real life. This is you don't need a hidden mark of model. You don't need machine learning to see this. Anyone can eyeball this and say that this market has split into two regimes. One is the pre crisis regime, one is the post crisis regime, and we should just switch the fit the straight line through the post crisis regime in in other areas of machine learning, if you apply machine learning to consumer data or to economic data or some you know, whatever you know, social economic data, oftentimes, the more data the merrier. Right? Because the consumer behavior doesn't change very often. That's not the case in finance, right? Finance? The financial market changes every time there's a major crisis or regulatory change. So there is really little point in using the pre crisis data to train your machine learning model. If you regard a regression model as a machine learning model, you can say there's no much point to use that data. Fold that away. You are not in the same regime. What's the point of fitting your model to the old data? It will just create bias in your day, in your model. You don't want bias in your model, okay, get rid of those data. Just fit it to the post crisis. That's number one fact we should get out of this so. But this graph is very profound. I love this graph because it shows you visually that there is a structural change in the US equity market, P and post crisis. It's as plain as the naked eyes. Can see number two, what is the characteristic? What is the intuition? What is the high level description you can give to this regime change? Can anybody tell me some facts about describe what has changed in terms of volatility or equity index. What has changed post crisis? Can you describe what you see in words? A high level summary of the change? Please?

Speaker 1  1:41:56  
The downward slope that is correct, the downward slope is signified. Signify anti correlation. But we knew that already. We said the anti correlation is minus 75% so this graph verified that, you know, it's indeed the negative 75% is not fitting to weird data, but it's it's really there. So yes, there's a negative correlation, and that gives us the hedge ratio as well the slope give us both the hatch ratio as well as you can compute the correlation if you know the actual standard deviation of this, this scatter plot, you can compute the correlation, But yes, negative slope is obvious. It is just a statement of the anti correlation. But what else? Increase in volatility in the post crisis not exactly correct. It's nuanced. So the volatility post crisis, on average, is Surprise, surprise. Actually lower right for the same level, let's say at the same level of let me draw a highlight. Okay, let's say we are looking at the same level of equity. Okay, like here you draw a horizontal line for the same level of equity, the volatility at that equity level is actually lower after the crisis, right? It moved this way, the fixed move that way. It's lower, right? Yes, so it's not an increase in volatility, but there's one thing that is increased, that is the range of volatility. The range of the volatility before is like this. The range of the volatility after the crisis is like this. How do we describe the range of the volatility. Sometimes people describe it as the volatility of volatility. In fact, there's an index to measure such a thing. It's called V V i x, higher v v i x the volatility become more volatile as well, bigger range, and that has great implication, by the way, of what kind of strategy is favorable. Let me ask you, maybe, you know, it's a deep and difficult question, Would you trade a mean refer would a mean reversion strategy be more favorable in the pre GFC regime or in the post GFC regime? Mean reversion strategy, not momentum strategy. Would you trade a mean reversion strategy more profitably in the pre crisis or the post crisis or. Him pose. Well, some people call pose. Some people call it P. Okay, the answer is, P is more profitable. Why? So? Mean, reverse strategy is profitable, not when the fault it is small, but when the fault it is large. Imagine you have a perfect sine wave in the in your SPX. Price sine wave, right? This is the SPX, let's say, and this is time, the bigger the map amplitude of the sine wave, the better. Your mean revenge strategy. You You mean reversion. Means you you short at the high and buy back at the low, right, short high, buy low. That's a mean reversion strategy. Of course, if you can make more money, if the amplitude of the sine wave is bigger, you get more money, and that means, if the higher the volatility, the more profitable your mean investment strategy is. But what if your sine wave goes like this?

Speaker 1  1:46:21  
Well, then we got a problem, because when we estimate when we should short and long, we don't know what the future quality is. We can only use the past volatility. Let's say we are trying to decide if we should short here at this point. Well, looking at the past, we say, well, this is the high in the past. Let's short here, oh, my God, you shot here. The market go up higher. You lose money. You might trigger a stop loss. Lose money, and repeatedly, oh, you say, Well, should I buy a you know, and also the same with the long maybe I should buy here, right in the past. This is the lowest price we got. You buy here? Oh my god, what happened to here? Maybe it goes because the hub volatility keep increasing. You keep triggering stop loss on a win first strategy. That's not good for mean reference strategy. You want high volatility, but low volatility or volatility. You want high fixed but low VVI X, that's favorable from mean version strategy. What about momentum strategy? You prefer the post crisis or the pre crisis regime, for momentum strategy, anyone post or pre for mean momentum strategy. What is better for momentum strategy? Post crisis? Yes, Jay, correct. This is good. If you are in a momentum strategy, you say, well, I will buy. Let's say your momentum says. You say, whenever the prices exceed the previous high, I buy. Okay, so instead of short here, I buy, and the faulty keep increasing. It go up, up, up. That is what you like in a momentum strategy, there's a volatility expansion, lovely for momentum strategy. So just from this one graph, you can say that, well, mean, refined strategy probably work better pre crisis, and momentum strategy probably work better poll crisis based on That fact, in general, that that that is true, okay?

Speaker 1  1:49:03  
So that's very good. Now, enough philosophy, enough high level intuition, enough talking. Let's do, let's find the, you know, go ahead and find the hedge ratio. So we say that, remember, let's just say that VX is, you know, beta times, yes, plus some constant. We don't care. So we will. We want to find BS and we remember yesterday. Remember anybody what's the latest and greatest statistics toolbox function for finding regression? Anyone remember that for Matlab? You can you? Some of you ask MATLAB press? Oh, one question. Sure, yes. Ask, has the regime change pre and post covid? Good question. For you to discover. That's for you to discover. So you need to gather more data and do the scatter plot in the last 10 years, and then you will find out. Right. Good question, though. So fit. Lm, yes, so we potentially should say, Oh, we have a linear model. Lm, that is obtained from fit LM, and it's always xy, so x is the ES and y is Vx level, okay, and then we'll find the beta, right? There's something wrong, something missing, not quite right? Anybody, if they actually do this, you know, I give you the yes data, I give you the VX data. You know, they are both futures data. And by the way, in this case, they all have 4pm closing time. You know, some of you might question, hey, wait a minute. These are in two different markets. VX is traded on the Chicago financial exchange or the SIBO exchange. ES is traded on CME. They're two different exchange. Are you sure we can just use the end of day price? You should remember that? Well, fortunately, in this case, they are both captured at 4pm Eastern. So no worries. That's not the problem. But there's another problem. Can we just stick in the levels of ES and VX like that and find the regression? If not? What's the problem?

Speaker 1  1:51:44  
Is a fairly trivial problem. It's not a deep mathematical problem, but it's a almost like a trivial data problem. Think about the data problem is, but if the data bumps, not to do with the closing time.

Speaker 1  1:52:12  
Let me see if you can spot anyone have traded futures might recognize that problem.

Speaker 1  1:52:43  
Let me see if anyone they're not one to one correct exactly one point move in the ye Mini is, remember the future. Prices are arbitrary units. They are arbitrary. They they don't mean anything. What does the you know, 505,000 means doesn't mean anything. You have to convert it to dollars to mean something. So in the years, case, each tech is $50 you have to multiply by 50 to convert it to a oh, I can't. Nobody can see this. Let me raise this.

Speaker 1  1:53:34  
Multiply by 50 and you get dollar. And what about VX? You have to multiply by 1000 each take move is $1,000 so in order to do a proper linear regression, they have to be in dollar units, and so we have to multiply better by then multiply the value of one tick 50 versus 1000 then you will get the proper hedge ratio. And what comes out of this will be how many mini contract is needed to hatch one contract of pH. Historically, when I first developed this, course, it's probably between two to three contract of E Mini. Now forget about it is you barely need one contract. Probably you need half a contract of E Mini again. Try yourself with the last five years of data, you'll find that you might need a fractional E Mini contract to hatch a VX. I'll let you try it. Okay, but supposing that we have found beta, you know, whatever that it is, maybe beta is equal to one, maybe beta equal to point five. Who knows? But let's say we found it using linear regression. What is the strategy we should pursue? Can anyone describe in words? What are the rules for the trading rules for this strategy?

Speaker 1  1:55:04  
What is about other trading rules describe in words? Because once you can describe in words the back test program, you can ask LLM to do it, describe the strategy in words, and ask LLM to create a program. So what's the training rules in words for for this strategy that we want to compute, yes, yes. At a high level, he managed to sell both or buy both, correct. But when can you describe you? If you say that to the LM, they will have no clue, right? You need to provide as much details as exactly when and how do you decide when to buy and sell? How do you decide and using what numbers you need that for the LM high fixed cell? Well, that's not quite right. That's not quite right. Remember, fixed is not what we are trading. We are trading the row return we fix is the sport price. We don't care about the spot price. We're not interested in the sport return. We in fact, we hedge the entire sport return. So fixed, high or low is of no interest to us. What exactly is the the trigger contango? Correct control you get. We are getting closer. We should short when it's contango. And how do we determine the contango? In this case, well, let me say that, yeah, what? How do we determine the contango? Anyone I

Speaker 1  1:57:07  
he might she said, Well, if the fix is greater than the ES then said, That's not correct. Yes and fix are two completely different futures. Comparing them does not tell you the contango. The ES is not fixed. Is an index and yes, is a future, but they are not in the same market. It has it. You know, they may be correlated, but that's not how you're going to find the contango of VX, future. Yes, fixed future and spot that is certainly one way that is correct. So if the VX future is greater than the fixed future, well, what's, what is that? Is that in contango? No, yes, that's in contango. That is correct. That is in contango and vice versa. You can also trade vice versa, actually, by the way, if VX is smaller than fixed back rotation, you can, in this case, you sell. In this case, you buy, sell. What sell vx and yes, and in this case, buy vx and also buy Yes, right. That's fine. That is fine.

Speaker 1  1:58:41  
But it can be a more nuance trading strategy. So it's easy to find the contango reputation. You just need to compare vx and VX. But what if we want to have a threshold? I don't only want it to be big. I want it to be big enough. I don't want it to be positive. I want it to be big enough. I don't want it just to be negative. I want to be negative enough. Well, you can of course go about the old way, which is, plot the term structure and do the linear regression. But the problem in this case is that the VX term structure is very long. Linear is very non linear. Let's see if there's a chart we can see, yes, here it is. It's very non linear. You can, of course, say, Well, no need, no problem. Let's find the tangent here. Yes, that you can do. You can find the slope of the tangent and use that, the negative of that slope to estimate the row return, that is one way, but it's kind of tedious, very tedious. This training strategy use a simple, simpler way to estimate, a simpler way to estimate the row return. So.

Speaker 1  2:00:07  
The simple way to estimate the row return is that, well, just take, you know, remembering the linear model, right? Remember the linear model of the future prices. In our case, let's say we have a contango and and the spot price is, you know, let's say this is a spot price. Okay, let's not not changing the spot price not changing, but the future go like this, one contract another go like this, right? That's, that's the linear model of of a future prices. Well, how do you find the the row return in this case, easy. Supposing, right now we are VX. Level is Vx and the spot price is not changing, right? The fix is there. Well, what's the, what's the, what's the role return? Well, easy enough. Let's say this is the time to expiration, zero and this is time to expiration. Well, simple arithmetic will compute the row return is, in this case, negative, so it's fixed minus vx divided by T. If you are using a linear model of row return, that's it. And you say, well, the row return has to be greater than a certain threshold. That is the trading strategy, you say, let's say the row return, I want it to be less than some threshold, you know, whatever H, H is positive number. Let's say that will short if it is greater than a certain threshold, H, you will buy, okay, that's it. So that is the trading rule that is being displayed here. Essentially, this is the training rule I described. And, you know, I invite you to try your hands in back testing this and tell me what the Sharpe ratio is. Okay, let's take a break for 10 minutes, in which time you can try back testing strategy and tell me what the fix is. Okay, we'll be back in 10 minutes. Okay?

Speaker 1  2:09:59  
Oh, yes. Some people ask, what's the threshold? Let's call it point one. Okay, point one. What does that mean? Point one doesn't mean 10% return a year. It means 10% return a day. Okay. So threshold is, I want the row return to be at least plus or minus 10% a day before I enter the signal. Okay, so that's the that's a threshold. Let me see, there's small question, can we check the distribution of the row return at different levels? Sure you can refine this strategy by, you know, looking at distribution of row return and then determine the threshold. That is a good possibility, good refinement. Another question is fixed filter is not available in finance, in Yahoo Finance, Jay, that's something I don't understand. I have given you the data. Why do you need to use the Yahoo Finance and as some of you know, you can either upload this data to MATLAB, which, by the way, you have access to. We, I believe, Connie, still give you one month license to MATLAB, or you can, as some of the colleagues here have suggested, Saeed pi.io has a function to read MATLAB file into a Python program. So I still am not completely sure why you need find Yahoo Finance for any of this back test. So Adrian found a sharp ratio of point nine five. That's about right. Yes, it's about point point nine five is about right. This strategy has a sharp just below one that is correct. So let's take a look of what we get. So this is the exactly what the 5.35 contract that's no longer correct, because this is, well, actually that is correct for that period. I take it back. It's correct for this back test data. But obviously you need to adapt this when you trade test life, right? If you are back testing the strategy with a bigger range of data, the hedge ratio should be adaptive. It cannot be fixed anymore. Okay? You have to use a rolling estimate of the hedge ratio. But given this particular data set and this hedge ratio, you should get, indeed, a sharp of around one and a return of 7% then you say, Wow, that's not impressive at all. Who needs a 7% return? But remember two things, this 7% return is an access return is over and above the risk free rate. You are not you know, when you compute a sharp ratio, you don't need to subtract the risk rate. That's not one point. The second point is that, typically, with a sharp ratio of one, you are allowed to level the strategy maybe point five times one point. 1.5 times maybe one, you know, leverage so that you can increase the return to 10% 13% but I don't recommend it leveraging it higher. So return is not important, because this return is kind of arbitrary. It depends on how much margin cash you put in the account. Typically, people would put less than half. You know, the margin is typically just 10% but of course, you just put 10% you're going to get a margin call pretty quickly. So let's say you only fund it with 50% margin. You know, you wouldn't. You seldom would get a margin call. You will unlikely to get a margin call with that, and then you will get a return on the margin of more than 13% so return is not important in the future trading strategy, because it's very much depend on what your how much margin you're going to put in, and what's the maximum drawdown. Right, the margin need to be sufficient to cover the maximum drawdown, and then some. Okay, so that's the the this strategy, again, many ways we find it, as some of you already suggested, looking at the distribution and adapting the head ratio and so forth. Now we have been

Speaker 1  2:14:51  
generating the trading signals on these futures using the road return. We know we have a causal model. Remember, we talk about causal modeling, we believe that there's a causal reason why fix has a negative contango, I mean, has a negative row return, and that is because of the theta of the underlying few options and so forth and so on. But in many cases, this is is hard work. You It's not easy to find this kind of fundamental arbitrage opportunity, although if you find it, it is likely to be enduring, right? So work hard to find them, find this causal model, look for this special opportunities. But sometimes you get tired and you say, Well, I want to do an exhaustive search. I want to look data mine essentially quickly to see what futures are promising for momentum trading. Can I do a quick scan to find out which momentum, which feature has momentum, and then deep dive into it to find a causal reason, right? Go about the opposite way, instead of starting with a hypothesis. It's almost like an astronomer, right? So, you know, for astronomer, of course, you can have a theory, or maybe a theory of black hole, and then you will trying to confirm, or we feel that theory by observing dying stars and the properties of freckle but there's another way in observation astronomy you can look for new scientific discovery is just scan the sky. Let's say, scan the sky for any star that seem to be drawn gravitationally to something to find this backhoe. Okay, that's done. That can be done. So what we do is, how do we scan for this kind of backhoe? How do we scan for this dying stars? Here is one method test for serial autocorrelation of returns, right? Autocorrelation with returns. Now when you say autocorrelation return, immediately, you can you know there a future period and there's a past period you are not necessarily testing for one day pass and one day future. It could be L day pass and H day in the future, right? L and h log back and hold back period. So you have to test for all pairs. So let me ask you, for those statisticians among you, when you compute auto correlation, or any correlation just doesn't have the auto correlation. Whenever you use the auto correlation function, what are the output?

Speaker 1  2:17:56  
What are the output of a correlation function? Generally speaking, at minimum output? Is it just one number? Of course, you might say, well, the output is the autocorrelation coefficient, sure, but what is the other important number that you need to decide whether the correlation, whether there's correlation, what other output is needed to decide if there is in fact correlation. In fact, in our case, we want positive correlation. How do you what other input is output is necessary to decide if there is going to be positive correlation?

Unknown Speaker  2:19:02  
Hazim anyone, any statistician among you,

Speaker 1  2:19:18  
you can ask your chatbot if you don't know the answer. Or you know that in this day and age, if you someone asked you a question and you don't know the answer, ask your chatbot, right? Your Chatbot is your friend. P value, correct? P value, I haven't got it. P value, by the way, sure, yes, I don't know why you bring up the notion of cointegration and C scores, they are completely irrelevant. Cointegration is quite irrelevant to momentum trading. And a C score may or may not be relevant, but certainly it's not an output of a correlation function. Correlation function doesn't produce a thing. Call C score, right? So P value, it is, what does these value tell you? P value tells you, yeah, sure, you get a correlation of point seven five, okay, so let's say, oh, here is correlation of point seven five, but that is computed by three data points, you have look back period and the holding period, and you have a return of r1 r2 r3 and r1 r2 r3 you have three samples, and you compute the correlation of 75% but the p value is point five. That's not going to cut it. What does p value mean? Anyone can explain to me what p value mean. P value mean, what you

Speaker 1  2:21:03  
p value is the probability that this correlation is actually zero. This point five is the flu is a statistical fluke. It can actually be zero is the probability that this particular sample correlation is actually zero, because we have too few data points to understand what the actual distribution of data is. Okay, it's the probability whether you can reject the null hypothesis. Typically, to reject a null hypothesis. We want point o5, 5% is the level that you want to reject the null hypothesis. So that is very important now that present a problem for us. In this particular case, imagine that you have a time series of daily returns, and then you compute this look back period, oh, I don't know. Let's say typical look back period is, you know, 250 days, 250 trading days. Typical holding period is, let's say 25 trading days, right? One, one year. Look back, one month holding and then you ship it forward by one day. And then you have another sample. And then so you get it, you gather a lot of sample every day. You get a new pair of return back. Look back and holding period, and then you feed into a correlation function, and you say, voila, high correlation. And by the way, the p value is just 1% the problem with that is that there is a key assumption in many statistical tests. Do you, and any statistician among you, what is a key assumption about the data in any statistical in most statistical tests? What's the key assumption of that data? There's a key assumption of that data is called, it's not that the data is normally it doesn't have to be so strong. Normal Distribution is asking for too much that most statistical test does not require normal distribution to be valid. But there's one property that it assumes the data has for for many statistical tests. What is the property of that data? Anyone who have done statistic test should remember, maybe wait for a minute. Brainstorm. It's not called stage Saeed. I think that stationarity is a property of a time series, but it is not a general property of data. Right when? When you apply statistical test, they don't assume that this data is a time series. If they all it sees is a bunch of pairs of data. It does know that it comes from time series, so stationary won't enter into this. And it certainly doesn't assume that there's a linear relation between these data. Now that's not it either. That's too strong the assumption. There's a very weak assumption, and it has nothing to do with skewness or kurtosis, because, again, there's no assumption about the shape of the distribution. But there's something much more fundamental about the data. Much more simple and fundamental assumption about the data that statistical test and agram Got it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. See, when you wait long enough someone you're gonna get it. It's called i i d anyone know what i. D is independent and identically distributed. In our case, the first i is most important independent. The data sample is assumed to be independent of each other. I don't mean the independent between the X and Y variable. Of course, the x and y, the error and X variable, they are not independent. Otherwise there won't be any correlation if they're independent, right? If they're independent, the correlation with zero, I mean, the independence between sample one, sample two and sample three days have to be independent. But if we have a 250 day, look back period and 25 day holding period, and we move it forward one day to get another sample. Are those two samples independent? Of course not. They two sample are practically identical. You know, the 250 days move forward one day.

Speaker 1  2:25:56  
248 of those days are the same. And so the return are almost identical between these two samples. That's the meaning that completely violate the IID assumption. So the p value that you get out of it is likely with much, much under underestimated. It is not point one, it's not 1% it's most likely 10% P value that you get because of the violation of ID. So how do we deal with this situation? I have a poor person's method to deal with. You can ask your you can ask your chatbot for sophisticated mathematical way. There is some specific way, but for me, I have a poor person's way of dealing with it, which is Shift, not by one day, but I by the minimum of L and H shift by that much.

Speaker 1  2:27:02  
So that at least one of these period is not overlapping. In that case, you can assume independence, or close to independence. That is the way. So you cannot sample every day to compute your correlation, you have to sample every mean, l, comma, H, state that makes the p value a little bit more meaningful. Okay, so let's do an exercise I have given you this two year treasury. No future. These are back adjusted, continuous contract. No worries about roll over. It's easy. You just upload this data set, you find the column the correspond to T, U, and that's it. Just pick that column, daily prices and compute the auto correlation between 250, look back and 25 day forward period. What is the correlation coefficient? Okay, in MATLAB, you use this function and what is the p value, okay, it's a very simple exercise, please. Let's take five minutes to do it. We don't need to take 1010. Minutes. Okay, let's take five minutes. You.

Speaker 1  2:30:41  
So if you have computed the correlation, please post it. And also, what's the p value, please post or Both, both of them for this pair,

Speaker 1  2:34:01  
somebody found, manjuna has found that the correlation is a 29% very, very decent, and it's p value of point one, 6.016 very statistics significant, and you are probably right. So let's take a look at what I got. So I have compared computed all pairs. Basically, you should ignore anything with p value greater than point. Oh, five, right? That's 5% is our threshold. But within this 5% filter, they are, of course, you want to pick the one at the highest correlation. But, but here this, this is not too bad, not too bad. Point two seven. For me, I found point two seven and point you know, oh, two, so you find better. Mandrina, so great, great. Thank you so. And that is actually very typical for many futures. And certainly took case in tu a typical momentum timeframe is you use a one year look back period and hold for one month. That's a very typical momentum strategy with them. Now the ones that I described to you earlier, the strategies such as Excel ye and the strategy that trade Excel, year versus uso, VX versus es, they have a shorter holding period. Why? Because they are causal model. They exploit special properties of these futures. They exploit special understanding of the row return. But if you just do it on a you know, price basis. You don't care about row return. You don't care about arbitrage hedging. Okay, well, whole for 11 months, 12 months, that's good. There's also a nuance in there. I don't know if any of you are familiar with this hedge fund manager called Cliff Asness. Anyone heard of a gentleman called Cliff Asness, very famous guy. He he's a very active on social media. He has a he's a very opinion. Well, most great people are powerful people are very opinionated. But he's the founder of a fund called AQR. Oh, I don't know how much they manage these days, maybe 300 billion, right? 300 billion we're talking here. And he is also he is a PhD in finance, and he's his supervisor. Is a Nobel Laureate, Eugene farmer from University of Chicago, famous lineage and very, very powerful guy, but very friendly I exchanged, you know, social media kit, chat with him online. It's very, very guy. You can, you can interact with this great man online. He will answer you. Well, of course, he doesn't suffer food, so don't, don't post anything stupid. But he reacted favorably to some of my comments. So is, is a gay guy. Anyway, he's published a paper that says, I think value and momentum everywhere, where he suggests that instead of he also like this, one year look back and one one month holding period with a new one, as it's well known, momentum has a longer period. Look back period. It form. The formation of momentum takes longer time, but the formation of a mean reversion trade is much shorter time. So he recommend you skip the last most recent month when you compute the return. Instead of looking at the 12 month return, you look at the first 11 months of that only when you generate momentum signal. So that is a good advice. So now that you have computed the correlation and and determined that this period look back and holding periods good, what is, can you describe in words? What's the simplest momentum strategy? You should not you should trade anyone. I mean, you go through all these complicated Yeah, you got it, Q, a, Q, R, category. What is the simplest momentum strategy? In this case, now that you have determined that there is strong, statistically significant, positive autocorrelation, what's the simplest training strategy? You

Speaker 1  2:38:58  
explain in a word you don't need moving average trade simpler than that. Think simple. You know, for me, the best trading strategy is the simplest training strategy. The core trading rule had to be very simple, and then you build around it all kinds of risk management, optimization, this and that, but the core rule should be as simple as, what do not make it any more complicated than it's necessary. So no moving average. Describe the trading rule. Don't just say one word, buy and hold. What does that mean? You can't buy and hold because sometimes you have a you know, buy and hold is not a momentum strategy, break out, yes, but what does exactly mean by breakout so you know, just describe a training strategy that your LM can turn into a back test program. Don't just say break out, because your LM may create. Something really crazy, if you just say, break out. Ah. Manuja, manjuna, I've got it. If the back, if the look back, return is greater than zero, buy if look back, return is less than zero, short and whole for 25 days. Can it be that simple? Simpler than that? That's it. SC, what you get from that trading see here, can be more simple than that. What kind of momentum strategy can be simpler than that? And with that trivial strategy, what do you get? A sharp ratio of one Oh. You say, Well, the APR is so low. No worries, the drawdown is also low. So if you can tolerate a 10% drawdown, multiply leverage four times. If you can tolerate drawdown 15% leverage six times, what is the equity curve this one? But does it suffer from momentum crash? Of course, it does. Does it work only on T you not necessarily it work on at least four others, but you can try on other futures too. Very simple trading strategy, right? That can't be more simple. Okay, wonderful. Let we don't have a lot of time left, so let me fast forward to a section that is very Oh, I don't want to skip this. This is very interesting. Remember this earlier today? We said, well, what if? What? Is the way to deal with the momentum crash we describe? Oh, maybe you should use an indicator to say, well, we shouldn't trade momentum at this period. Or maybe you should not short, just get rid of short position. Or you can have a regime model to decide, you know, corrective AI, hmm, whatever. But the fourth possibility is trade a mean reference strategy. There are two ways you can create a mean reference strategy to trade it independently, or you can use its mean reverse signal and say that I only enter into a position if the momentum and the mean reference signal is aligned. Typically, the momentum signal is generated by longer periods. So for example, let's say we buy CL future when the CL price is higher than 40 days ago. So 40 is the long, longer time frame period, but we only enter into position if the price is lower than 30 days ago. So that is the mean reversion signal. This is the momentum signal, and we say we only get into position if both signals are in the same direction. Okay, so that is a potential mixing of mean recursion momentum, and let's see if it eliminate the momentum crash and how? How does it work in the crisis period? Let's take a look. So is, this is a very illustrative graph, so you can see that the green one is the pure momentum strategy. This is by when it is higher than 40 day. Huge return, again during the financial crisis, painful drawdown, forever afterwards, right? Typical momentum crash. And what about the mean reversion signal? What about the mean reverse signal? Okay, the mean reverse signal is, let me choose a

Speaker 1  2:43:58  
painful drawdown during the financial crisis, as expected. Well, 60% drawdown, not that bad, but wonderful. Recovery afterwards, going up during the recovery, almost the mirror image. But what about if we take the two signal together and only trade when they are aligned. Well, here it is, during the financial crisis is flat, too bad it doesn't generate 120% return, but at least you didn't lose any money. If you don't lose money, you are already a hero. Your fans and family say, Wow, you are the best. You avoided all the pain. You're the best, and then after that, you recover, just like the best of them, what's not to dislike? Pretty good, right? You avoided the pain and you had. Participate in the game. You are the hero. If you are the financial advisor that generate this equity curve goodness, you'll be in business how, what's the Sharpe ratio is 1.1 so that's one way we can avoid we get the best of both worlds. Now, if you say, Well, I actually want a bit of a tail hedge property. So well, you don't have to be one on one. You can say, instead of doing the instead of aligning the two signal, you can say, well, I'll trade both strategy in some different weighting, maybe two, one unit of momentum strategy and two units of mean referent strategy, or maybe some other ratio, then you get some return during the crisis offer during the crisis period. Maybe have some more drawdown during the recovery period, but still not that painful, right? So it's up to you. So that's a very interesting combination. So now let's fast forward to the last the obvious are not that important. Oh, I should mention the character spread, because that was brought up earlier. Can the spread, as I mentioned, if the goal is to hatch the spot return? What better can a sport? What better hatch can a can of spread? No better instrument than the Canon spread, right there. Sport return is hedge. Exactly. The problem is, how do you extract the role return from a Canon spread? You let me take you through this situation. Let's look analyze the forward curve. If the fourth curve look like this. No, this is this is a T, capital T, oops, T, not that good. Capital key. This is the fourth curve, term structure, right? This is the F or log f, and the fourth curve look like this. What's your return of a counter spread? Let's say the cancer spread is by the fund contract and short the back contract. What is the return of this kind of spread by fund contract and short back contract for this constructor, anyone? I

Speaker 1  2:47:49  
zero. Humanity got it. And same with you short the prime contractor. It doesn't matter. No matter how you construct organic spread, it's going to have zero why you have a linear term structure that row return is the same for every contract. There's no difference. What If, however, I have so in order to have some return, you get to have some curvature. So let's say you have this kind of spread. I'm sorry this, this, this kind of a term structure, should I short or buy the fund contract? In this case, this is the front contract and this is the back contract. Should I short or buy the fund contract for this kind of spread by Jay Say, Bye. Anybody agree? Everybody agrees with me by any contrary opinion. Okay, everybody suggests it's by and unfortunately, you're all wrong. Unfortunately you got it exactly wrong. Remember, the row return is determined by the negative of the slope of the term structure negative. So the slope here is very steep, the slope here but positive is less positive. So that means that the row return here is very negative, and the row return here is less negative. So you should definitely short the fund contract and buy the back contract. Tribute trick. You negative the negative sign is paramount importance. Remember negative, negative, negative. The row return is not the slope of the term structure. Is the negative of the slope of the term structure. Okay, what is the risk? Okay, you say, okay, great, let's do this kind of spread and make money forever, right? What can you what can go wrong? What can make you lose money if you do this? What's the risk of trading a can of spread strategy like this? Do

Speaker 1  2:50:24  
well, event and volatility is not except, you know, what's the proximate cause? Yeah, I mean, the event in volatility might contribute to some volatility in the PnL, but ultimately, what's the biggest problem, the most direct cause that will cause this strategy to fail?

Speaker 1  2:50:57  
Think about it's not say there's no theta. Three years in futures, you're thinking about options. We are not trading options. There's no theta involved in futures. We are trading, you know, the Canada spread, you know of, let's say crude oil. It doesn't, I did, didn't say what, exactly what, what the cancer spread is. It could be of crude oil. Could be of fixed. It could be of Treasury note. There's no failure involved in general. I mean, generally, failure is not applicable to futures. So what is the problem? Liquidity may not be a problem. Supposing this is a Canada spread on the fixed future. There's no no liquidity issue. There's very liquid. There's a very, very big assumption you're making here that says that this strategy will be always profitable. What is that big assumption? Let's say you are took my advice, and short the fund contract, and long the back contract, you assume in what that this strategy will be, continue to be profitable, going for one month, two months, 10 months ahead of time, you don't the assumption is not that the spot price remain constant. We have no we don't care a bit about the spot price. Why? Because this is a fully hedged the spot return in the Canada spat is exactly zero. They are fully hedged. We couldn't care less what the spot price, but they DaVita and himachu Got it. Thank you. The shape of the term structure, the shape of the four curve, is by no means constant. Nobody guarantee you that the curvature is negative. In this case, right, now the curvature is negative. Nobody guarantee that the curvature of the term structure can switch, just like a future can even switch from back gradation to contango, right? You know that they can. They don't switch too often, but they can switch even the the slope can switch, not to mention the curvature. Both the slope and curvature can switch. So once the curvature Swift, your long position become losing. All the position going to lose. That's the problem. That's the risk. So when you compute, you apply a candidate strategy, look for those market where the curvature doesn't change often. Are there some you will find out for you to discover? Can you find a market where the curvature doesn't change from day to day? It's okay if you change once a week, you make money four days a week. It change, and then you lose money for one day County. You know that's okay, but you don't want to have the courage to switch every day, because you won't have enough time to harvest the road return in that case, right? Okay, very good. Goal may be the case. It might be Hazim, good, good, good, yeah, thank you. Suggest go, wonderful. Let's try that. Okay, let's fast forward to the last strategy that is very interesting. It is called a for sale because of a level ETF, okay. You may be familiar with all these three times or two times, levered ETF that track and index, for example, upro, they claim that they are level three times the SPX return. Let me ask you one question. Does that mean that if you hold UPR for one year? It the when you return of your holding is going to be three times the annual return of a spy which is unlevered,

Speaker 1  2:55:15  
one year is the one year return equals to three times of one year return of spy if you're holding at UPR, which is known to be a three time leverage of the spy. Reason, average means at the cost of every day you're you are actually only three times the the you know, if you're only $1 of EPR, you're actually only $3 of spy, because they use leverage to make sure that you are exposed to $3 of spy. But does that mean that over one year you have a three times return of spy? Suraya says yes, and you are unfortunately wrong. The long term growth rate of any instrument, not just every instrument, is the mean return. This is compound over g is the mean return? That's the arithmetic return divided by the variance, or you can call it standard deviation squared divided by two. That is the long term goal rate. There's a volatility drag. If you compound a long term return, there's a volatility drag. So when you do a three times lever, yeah, the average return, daily, average return, is going to be free time that is mandated that is that is designed to be the case. But at the same time, the volatility is also three times. So the variance is nine times. If the variance is big enough, your return on the three times level UPR is actually less than the unlevered version. Do not be fooled, my friend, do not be fooled. Leverage ETF can generate a less than can generate a return that is lower than the unleveraged version, because of the volatility, joint very key fact, do not be fooled, but because what does that have to do with us? But because of this, the fact that you have to maintain a three times leverage, it generate a momentum. Why? In the market, you don't have to hold up IO to experience that momentum every time the market goes down a lot, let's say 2% this kind of leverage. ETF have to sell like crazy, otherwise they will be over leveraged. You can do this exercise. I we don't have time to do it in class today, but you should do it as a homework exercise, so every time that the market go down a significant amount, the ETF have to sell stock like crazy, to maintain a three times leverage. It cannot do. And if it goes up 2% you have to buy stock like crazy. This exercise, ask you how much you have to buy or sell. Given this example, this asset value and the the I will tell you the the answer. But you should do the math, 32 million, assuming that this is only holding two 70 million. It is going to buy itself. 32 million near the market. Cost. You cannot do that throughout the day, because you don't know where the market is throughout the day until the last 15 minutes. But the amount of levered asset tied to the SPX is far more than two 50 million represented by this ETF. It is probably billions. Imagine you have to sell billions of stocks within the last half hour, 15 minutes of the day, in the same direction as the market movement. If the market is already down 2% everybody and their cousin is going to have to sell near the close to maintain their leverage. Or if the market goes up 2% everybody and the cousin is going to buy in order to maintain leverage, there's a humongous amount of institutional buying and selling near the old coastal market that is tied to the index because of this leverage effect, because of what people call gamma, gamma effect, and that generate Momentum near the end of the day. So if you take advantage of this and Gen create a trading strategy that said, Well, I don't care, as long as the market move, oh, 2% up to 345, I will trade in the same direction. Would you generate any return? Would you have any momentum? Random. Yes, you can for a one year back test. You get a short version of two

Speaker 1  3:00:10  
the details of this strategy. You can look it up. It's a published strategy by a professor of finance called Pauline Shum, a friend of mine. And she published it around 2010 to 2011 I don't remember look it up, because the complete strategy. Does the strategy still work yet, but only if you add bells and whistle, just like every other strategy I teach you, it won't work as a plain vanilla version, but it will work if you add enough bells and whistle. So that is the story of the day, story of the last two days. Basic idea, embellish it, improve it, optimize it yourself, and that is the way to profitable trading. Thank you very much for your attention. Time and time is up. Don't want to take up too much of your time, and hope you have a successful trading career forward so.

