Speaker 1  0:03  
Good evening, everyone. I hope I'm audible. So before I go ahead, I'm going to take a look at the let me see, hang on. I just want to make sure I'm portable as well as I'm as well as you can see my screen. So I have opened the Q and A section, the Q and A screen. Please confirm that you can hear me as well as you can see my screen. You okay, great. So thank you. Zubin, Sonia, shantara, Pathar, Radha Brahma, many, many of you have confirmed both that it's audible as well as it's visible. Great. Thank you so much. All right, so let's begin today's proceedings. I'll go on to slideshow mode, and then we'll move ahead. All right. So welcome, folks. Welcome to the first lecture on strategy back testing using Python. I'm your host. I'm your faculty for today. My name is Vivek Krishnamurthy. I had research and content here at quantity, so I've been around the block for a while. I've been here for nearly eight, for eight, nine years now. And this is, like one of my favorite lectures that I take in the EPA. I take multiple lectures. This is, I would say, one of the initial ones that I take. So I'll tell you a little bit more about how my class operates as we move along, so as far as my own background goes, I come with a bachelor's degree in engineering. And post that I did what many people of my vintage did, which is I went on to pursue an MBA in finance. So I did it from NTU in Singapore, after which I lived and worked in Singapore for a few years. And then, you know, switched jobs. I have dabbled both with academia as well as industry. In my past, I've also spent a few years as a research scholar in Canada in a publicly funded university called McMaster. And for the past eight, nine years, I've been associated with quantity, where I like to think that my job is walking the thin line between academia and industry. So while there's a big component of teaching and research associated with my job, I am still working for a.com I don't work for a.edu or a.org right? So that's a little bit about me. Now, as far as today's lecture goes and just a little bit of housekeeping. The way my lectures operate is that I have a lot to say on a given topic that I teach. So even today, I am constrained by the fact that we are together for about three hours, whereas the the things I need to speak on this topic would span far more than that. So how I managed to find a workable solution to this is that I share with you notebooks and other reading material, which, if you review by yourselves, will take you a lot longer. However, for the purpose of the class, I focus on parts of the notebook, all right, so I will spend more time on certain parts and gloss over certain other parts and sometimes even ignore certain other parts that being said, I expect that when you do your review, you will go through everything, all The material that I share. All right, with regard to how the next, you know, three hours will move. I give two breaks in the in the lecture. So the first break happens around 65 to 68 minutes into the lecture. So we started at about four. You can expect your first break to be around five, 5pm also you will get about eight to nine minutes of a break. So you can go grab yourself a beverage, you can go use the bathroom, and then you come back, hopefully a little more recharged. Then we continue again for another 6065, minutes, and then again we have another eight, nine minute break, and then we continue the last session of the of the lecture. So for those of us who follow Test cricket, this is like the three sessions that happen in a typical day of Test cricket. You have the the morning session, you have the lunch session, and then you have the tea sessions. Sadly, here we don't have lunch in the middle, in fact, not sadly, I'd say happily, because I'm pretty sure that if we had eaten lunch and we come back to class, we wouldn't be paying too much attention. All right, so as far as today's lecture goes, we'll start off on this slide deck. We'll barely spend like five seven minutes here, and then for the rest of the class. Us, we are going to move on to the Jupiter notebook, where almost everything that I want to say on this topic will be via the notebooks. The Notebook is, to me, you know, a beautiful teaching device, because it allows me to share code, plots, tables output, and it also allows me to weave in a fair amount of prose where I want to explain certain things in more detail. And it all comes in this one single document, which also renders pretty well. So code and pros can sit side by side in their own respective ways, right? Okay, so let's, let's see. What we're going to do is do today. So we start off with a step wise approach to creating and testing trading strategies. So this is a, you know, a simplified way to look at how we go about building quant trading strategies. And then we go on to building and testing, right for the rest of the lecture. So we'll cover about three to four different strategies today, and at the very end, if time permits, I'm going to also give you a glimpse of the quant stats dare sheet. All right, now let's talk about what are the different steps we take. So the very first step that you need to take when you are testing a trading strategy is the idea itself, right? You need to come up with some sort of strategy idea, or a trading idea. Where do these ideas emerge from? It could emerge from virtually anywhere. They generally come from, I would say, Trader forums. So if you're looking on websites where people are discussing trading strategies, that's a good source. There's also news. News comes to us in different shapes and forms. We consume news via audio, video, the printed word, right? It can come from there. Then there are many blogs where people are discussing stuff. There's academic studies, which is a very good source. However, it's a little harder to pass through because of the nature of academic literature, right? And then there is good old gut instinct, right? So gut instinct comes from years of experience. So maybe you have dabbled in the markets, or, you know, of people who have maybe it's your family, maybe it's certain friends, and you might have heard them speak about stuff a lot, and so, you know, some sort of instinct might have gotten developed there. Okay, so once you have, like a bare bones trading idea, what you then need to do is you need to download the relevant data, right? So we are all aspiring algo traders, and so anything that we want to examine or analyze, we will do it with data. We will not just rely on our Garden Sticks, right? So we will download the required data. Now this data can come again, depending on the frequency at which you trade. You can either live with historical daily data, which is pretty easy to obtain, or you can start looking for higher frequency data, such as five minute, you know, single minute, 15 minute bars, right? You have all sorts of data that can come to you, right now, this tends to be expensive, and I think one of the best places to look for this kind of data is through your broker, right? So whoever, whichever part of the world you are in your broker, will have access to data, and based on your subscription with that broker, it may be bundled along with your subscription, or you might have to make a small additional fee for getting live or even historical streaming data onto your workstations, right? So once the data problem is taken care of, then comes the algorithm wherein you will you may need to build or calculate certain indicators. Right? These indicators could be technical indicators, right? So you could have, like, your garden variety, moving averages or of different frequencies, you could have RSI bollinger bands and the rest of it, right. Once you create those indicators, the next thing you want to do is create rules, right? So these two rules will define when you enter a trade and when you exit a trade, right? You can make it even more detailed. You can add things like take profit and stop loss,

Speaker 1  9:29  
risk management, position sizing. So this thing, this, this specific step, can get far more detailed depending on how, how long you know how familiar you are with markets and trading, right? But to begin with, we can keep it simple. We will come up with entry rules and exit rules, right? So once you do that, and once you apply these newly formed rules on to historical data, you would want to compute the returns that you would have got to. If you had followed through on these signals, and even the rupee or dollar value of your profit and loss, right? You don't just want percentages, which is good, but you also want to know that if I had invested, say, 10,000 rupees, or if I had invested, you know, 5000 US dollars, what would my the state of my trading account B today, right? While you do all this, you want to make sure you program things step wise and test every part after completion, right? You don't want a situation where you write the whole program and then do it do do like a single test to run it, because then debugging it can be quite a pain. Instead, if you start creating it step wise and keep testing it as you move on to the next, it makes your job of, I would say, creating a full fledged strategy a bit easier. Now, it's important for you to make sure that your code is well commented. The reason for that is that is that else you are going to spend a lot of time trying to understand your own code, so just leave yourself these notes, which for which you will thank your own future self later, right? Point number six is about wanting to break up your code into different logical parts, right? What we call fragmenting of code so that you don't have to run every part every time you're working on your strategy, right? So, for instance, you can shive off the data download part and make it a function, so that when you are starting to work on your or testing something with regard to your strategy, you do the download, and then you proceed with the next few steps. So every time you want to run the program, just avoid the download part, because you know it works and it can be fine, right? So you can move on to other parts of what you're working with. And last, but by no means the least, is to create contingency plans, right? So obviously, these are all computer systems that we are working with, and there are so many moving parts to them that any of these parts could at any point in time, fail or throw up errors, and it can throw your entire system, you know, off the rails, right? So in order to try to avoid situations like that, we need to create contingency plans wherever possible. For instance, if, let's say the download of your data is not happening properly, what do you do? Well, the simple thing that you can do, at least what we are looking at for today, is to download your data and save it as a CSV file, right? So either you download it manually, or you use your automated system download. And after you download it, you export it as a CSV so that you can retrieve it whenever you need right? So that makes your job a bit easier. Now we'll keep going back to these steps as we move along in today's lecture. Right? So now I'm going to jump to the Jupyter Notebook. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  13:17  
let me share the notebook. I me,

Speaker 1  13:27  
can you see my screen? Guys, again, I'm going to confirm that you can see my now switched screen. I look at the chat for Q, a again, please confirm that you can see my Jupiter, okay. Money content has confirmed that you can see it. And so has Brahma Yes, Jupiter notebook, great. Thank you. Anusha Subin and others. All right. So today, so we have finished the first part, which is a stepwise approach. But hang on, before we jump to strategies, I want to cover three to four concepts which will keep coming up over and over again throughout the rest of this lecture. So rather than spending time on those concepts while we are going through the strategy, what I have decided is I'm going to talk about it separately. Okay, so I deliberately did not share this stuff with you, because this is, like, virtually just rough notes for me to talk about it. I'm happy to share this, this, this file, with you, post the lecture. But the purpose really is just to, you know, drill down certain important ideas. Okay, so we are going to talk about four different things here. The first of them is called the difference between simple returns and log returns. Okay, so throughout finance and throughout quant trading, people keep on using one or the other, and once you're in in this business, right? It is a. People essentially presume that everybody knows the difference between these two, and therefore the slight difference in the steps that we take in order to compute different things. Right? However, since we are new to the field, we may not be entirely familiar with it, so it's always a good thing for us to know what these two are, how they differ, and when should we use bridge, right? So in order to do that, we'll just import a bunch of libraries. We'll keep doing this in all programs. So this is standard stuff, right? We're using y finance, which is very popular library to download from Yahoo Finance. It's an API that we can use to download from finance or yahoo.com you have pandas, our old crime partner, right? NumPy and pandas, they always come together. And then you have matplotlib, matplotlib, which is, again, one of our favorite partners in crime, right? These, these, these are all usual, the usual stuff that you see in any program. Now, what we want to do here is, I mean, for fun, I just picked up reliance. Why reliance? Because it's a well traded and one of the most well known Indian publicly traded firms. So we'll download the data for, say, all of 2025, that's what about 10 to 11 months of data. So we'll download it. Download it by specifying the start date, which is first jam, and end date which is 20th, November. And yeah, let's just download it and see what we have. So we have price surprise has the details of reliance, which started off around 1221, at the start of this year, and it's around 1500 at the end of the year, right? Okay, now, what is the simple returns? Simple returns are also sometimes referred to as arithmetic returns. It's pretty straightforward. It's just the price at any given point in time, minus the price one period prior. So that one period prior could be one day prior if you're dealing with daily data, if you're dealing with 10 Minute candles, it would mean the price at this instant minus the price at the moment, which was 10 minutes ago, right? Divided by the price from 10 minutes ago, one if it's one hour candles, it means the price at this instant minus the price one hour prior, divided by the price one hour prior, right? So this is what arithmetic or simple returns are. Where are they used, they used, if you want to directly talk about percentage change, this is the easiest thing to work with, right? Because we've been learning this right from our young. You know, youngest years in school, right? And throughout our schooling, as we moved on to college and university, we are very familiar with computing things directly using in this manner. One thing to note is that when you are working purely with percentages, simple returns, that is, if you want to compute returns over a period of time, that is in successive periods, there is going to be a multiplicative component. I'll come to what it is and how we compute use work with it in a bit. Okay, it's it's what is called multiplicative over time. The other way to work with returns is to work with what are called log returns. So in case of log returns, what we do is we take the natural log of the price at a given point divided by the price one period prior, right? So that, again, like the previous case, one period prior could be one day prior, one week prior, one minute prior, one hour prior, and so on. And why do we use this well? Because it's additive over time. And generally speaking, human beings prefer addition to multiplication. Why? Because it's computationally or cognitively an easier concept for us to digest. Right? In fact, even multiplication is really just repeated addition, right? Be that, as it may be, prefer adding stuff, and it's also preferred in many statistical models, just the use of natural law. Again, natural log has some very nice properties which make calculations very easy, and you learn about the benefits you know, as the ePAT rolls by, not just today's lecture. Okay, so if you want to use Python to compute it, this, the way to compute simple returns is to use this routine called percentage change, right? So percentage underscore change will help you compute simple returns. And if you want to compute log returns, you do NP, dot log price divided by price, dot shift one, right? Surprise or shift, one will kind of retrieve the previous periods, price, right, previous day or previous hour, right? That's what it does. So fairly straightforward. You can just compute r and log R like this. Sorry excuse me. So if you want to take a look at how R looks. So these are the values of r, let's do one thing. Let's do R, comma, log, underscore, R, or they don't appear very nicely, no problem. Let's do one thing. Let's just do R, and then let's also do log R. Okay, so let's compare the values. So if you look at, say, the first few values. It's 0.016827 0.007529 and if you compare it to these ones here, it says 16687, whereas it was 16827, so there's a slight difference in value. As you can see, this is 007529, this is 007501, this is minus 0.0264 this is minus 0.0268 so you can see that the values are very similar, but not the same, right? They are close, but not quite the same. So there is a definite difference in the actual values of log returns and arithmetic or simple returns, right? So that is this talks about just what simple returns are, versus log returns are, how you compute them, and I spoke about why you choose, say, one over the other, right? One being because it's additive, and the other being because it's multiplicative. Now let's come to the second concept I want to talk about, which is cum sum and cum prod, okay, so now come sum as the name suggests, means cumulative sum. Okay, so cumulative sum means you keep adding as each time interval elapses. So if say, you compute r at a given point in time, and then you have IR again one instance later, the cumulative returns would be the sum total of the previous two after the third day occurs, it would be the sum total of the all three days after the fourth day occurs, it will be the sum total of all four days and so on, right. Now, when does it make sense to use come sum, or cumulative sum? You use it when you're working with log returns, because log returns in general, are additive over time, right? And then the question is, when do you use its close cousin, called comprod, right? Which is cumulative product. Well, you use it when you're working with arithmetic or simple returns. Okay, so before I go ahead, I'm going to take a quick look at questions. Okay, so raga was,

Speaker 1  23:22  
can you explain the multiplicative and additive logic again? Right? So, let me do one thing. We

Speaker 1  23:40  
tell you what happens when we are talking about returns. Okay, so let me work with the marker. So let's say we have an asset price. Prized at 100. Okay, so day one, it is 100. Day two, its price moves to 105 day three, it becomes, say, 108 day four, it becomes 103 and day five, it becomes 106 so you can see this is like a like having a stock, right? Every day it's price keeps moving up and down. Now, if I were to ask you that, if I if you had bought it on day one and sold it on day two, what would your returns have been? Well, your returns would have been 5% right, 105 minus 100 divided by 100. So returns would be 5% right. What if you had bought it at 108 sorry, bought it at 105 and sold it at 108 well. Then your returns would have been 108 minus 105 divided by 105 right? So 108 divided by 105

Speaker 1  25:15  
so you would have had returns of 2.857% right? If you had bought it at 108 and sold it at 103 sorry, your returns would have been,

Speaker 1  25:37  
it's going to be minus of this, right, minus one. So your returns would have been minus

Unknown Speaker  25:47  
4.6 let's call it 3% right. Your returns would have been minus 4.363%

Speaker 1  25:55  
and similarly, if you had bought it on day four and sold it at day five, your returns then would have been 106 divided by 103 to give you 2.9% right. 2.9 This is how your returns would have looked. Now the point is suppose I were to ask you at the end of day five, what returns did you make? Right? So if suppose you had just bought it on day one and sold it on day five, your total returns would have been 6% 100. Bought it at 100, sold it at 106 however, if you had done this operation, bought at 105 bought at 105 sold at 108 and so on, the return should have been the same, right? If you look at it that way. However, if you try to just directly do a arithmetic sum of these numbers. So if you were to do 5% plus 2.857%

Speaker 1  27:14  
plus minus 4.63% plus 2.9% two you will not get this to be 6% right. Let's see what this gives us. Anyways, let's do this. Okay, so I think the percent mark will not work, so we'll have to do point 052, zero, 5.028

Unknown Speaker  27:47  
0.0463

Speaker 1  27:55  
plus 0.09 right? So this gives you a total of 6.127% right, which is not equal, as you can see, correct? Which means direct addition does not help, right? That is why you need to do something like come prod. So what does come prod do? Come prod essentially does this. It says you should do one plus say r1, if r1 is the returns for the first day multiplied by one plus r2 one plus r3 in our case, there are four days, right? So we'll say one plus r4 this is what you need to do, and subtract one from it, okay? And basically that is what we do in this step. So when we talk about come some one is when you want to know what the returns are, if you do one plus r and you do a cum prod of it right come prod means you are going to so at the end of day two, you will just multiply these two. At the end of day three, you will multiply these three, one plus r1, one plus r2, one plus r3, at the end of day four, you will multiply all four values. So that is what com prod does. And then, since you're multiplying everything with a one plus for actual returns, you will need to subtract one at the end, right? So that's what you need to do, and that is essentially what comprott does for logs, on the other hand, what you can directly do is you can just do a sum total of all the returns you get, right? So here we spoke about what returns are with regard to simple returns. Now suppose we were to work with log returns. How would this entire thing work? Let's just say log. Returns. So for log returns, here we would say log returns is the natural log of 105 divided by 100 this would be natural log of 108 divided by 105 this would be natural log of 103 divided by 108 and this would be natural log of 106 divided by 103 right, by the way, this should all be log returns. Okay, let me just mention that we show here log returns. And for if you remember what you might have learned way back in school, natural log of A plus natural log of b plus natural log c is the same as natural log ABC. That is, you can multiply all of them together. So in this case, the total, in our case, will become 105 divided by 100 multiplied by 108 divided by 105 multiplied by 103 divided by 108 right, multiplied by 106 divided by 103 and here what happens is this 105 gets canceled. With this 105 this 108 and 108 get canceled. This 103 and 103 get canceled. So this effectively becomes equal to natural log 106 divided by 100 right? That's what happens here. Again. I'm taking a look at the questions, right? So that I can see that some people are asking things like, where is this? Minus one and plus one coming from? Guys, this is what we are seeing here. Is essentially math, okay? What we would learn in a typical math class, and since this is not really a math class, what I'm doing is, I'm giving you guys a little bit of a slight hint as to what is happening under the hood. Okay, but if you really want to delve into the math behind it, I would, you know, urge you to go through some material that you know we can share online. I mean, you know, you can write your support manager, and we can send you some stuff for you to read the math behind it. What here I'm trying to do is, I'm just trying to give you a bit of an intuition behind what's going on. Okay, just remember that when we work with log returns, we we can do direct summation, and when we work with simple or arithmetic returns, you will need to do this one plus R. You know, every time you'll have to do a one plus r, and once you do that, you'll have to multiply all these one plus r factors, so one plus r1, one plus r2, and so on. And at the end, subtract one, so that you get it as returns, right? If you just work with one plus r1, one plus r2 one plus r3 what you otherwise will get is you will get the total value of your capital, not the value of the the returns, right? So it's like saying even 100 goes to 106 that come prod number will become 1.06 but is higher returns 1.06 No, your returns are 1.06 minus one, which is 6% so Jesse asks, Can you do come some and come prod on both simple and log returns? The answer is no, you cannot, right? You have to use cum sum when you're working with log returns, and you have to use come prod when you're working with simple returns. That's all there is to it. Okay? Madhu Sudan asks, what is R? R is the notation we are using to denote returns. Okay? So when I say r1 here, I'm referring to the returns that you would have got when you invested on day one and sold on day two. So this is what we are referring to as r1 right? This is what we are referring to as art. This becomes r3 this becomes r4 right? In our little illustration here. Okay, so, yeah, so this is essentially a little bit about cum, sum and come prod. So why have I spent a little time talking about this? That's because when we work with strategies, there are strategies where I work with arithmetic or simple returns, and there are strategies where I work with log returns. So you will see me use come some or come prod based on the returns, right? So I want you guys to have a clear picture as to when we use what, right and why we use what we do so, when, so to repeat, when do we use what? When we work with simple returns. We use the come prod or. The multiplication rule. When we work with log, we use the come sum or the additive rule, right? Why? Because of the math behind it. Where can I learn about it? Well, drop a line to your support manager, and I'm happy to send you a nice proof as to why we do what we do. Okay? For this class, I don't think we need to get into the hairy details of that. All right, okay. So that is as far as computing simple returns and log returns, course, right. So, so gross arithmetic returns you will do, like a comprod and gross log returns. You can do a comes up right? So we can do this. Let's run this. And if you for fun, want to see how returns look, if you were to plot both of them together, what you'll notice is that they are nearly equal when the value of those numbers is like, really small. Okay, so when the r value is like near zero, you can see that the orange and the blue lines are virtually overlapping each other, right? You can't really make out whether they are separate or the same. However, as the value of R moves further and further away from zero, like for instance, here it there were days and there were times when the after a point in time, the cumulative returns exceeded 15% right? So when it exceeded 15% you will notice that the orange line always stays below the blue line. That is the there is a clear difference in value. The value differences, by the way, are not substantial, but they are clearly non zero, right? There is a difference in value, right? As this line comes further down, the differences start becoming lesser. But as this line goes further into, you know, moving into the 20% range and stuff, these two lines start diverging more, right? That's all I want to kind of point your attention to. And for those of you who are even still curious about what it is, I've written a slight small section here called bonus, which you can take a look later. And if you want to know how to directly work or, you know, move from one to the other. So in this particular chart, I'm being slightly disingenuous here, because I'm using log space for one and proper returns for the other. So naturally they they look the way they do. But if you really want to do like an apples to apples comparison, you can convert your log returns itself into regular returns, and you'll find that there is they are really the same. I guess this one, one way I can try to

Speaker 1  37:57  
compare, or draw an analogy between log returns and simple returns. It is like you can measure a person's weight in either kilograms, which is the metric unit, or in pounds, right? Which is the other unit. Does the weight of the person change? Obviously not, right? The any person whose weight is being measured is exactly the same. However, the units are different, right? So if you measure somebody's weight in kilograms, and somebody is, say, 70 kilos, will that person have a weight of 70 pounds? Definitely not, right? The the weight of that person in pounds is probably going to be like 145 or 147 pounds. Similarly, a person who is like 150 pounds will will translate to maybe, like, I think 72 kilos or something, right? So it is a it is a case of difference different units. Okay, however, here the difference in units is not like kilograms and pounds, kilograms and pounds. The difference is like one is more than double of the other, right here, the difference is far less in value. And also, there's another big difference between comparing log return, you know, log and arithmetic returns versus kilograms, pounds there, the ratio stays constant, whereas here the difference in computed values also change as the value changes. So as the values become larger, the differences become bigger. Otherwise they are quite tiny. Okay.

Speaker 1  39:40  
Zubin has a very interesting question. He says, Does log returns always understate the return compared to simple returns? Yes. The answer, simple answer to that question is yes. It's a very sharp observation Zubin, and that is, that is true. Again, the answer to the why it is so lies in the derivation of log returns, or. And simple reduction, okay, Jesse says, may ask. Okay, so Jesse's question is slightly off topic, so I will not talk about it, at least for this lecture, but I will come back to it. You know, if time permits later, at the end, Jesse, else, you're obviously free to write to us, or maybe the TA can might, might just write something to you there. Okay. Aditya padman asks, What should be using log returns, or you can use either. The main thing is whichever you use. You just need to be sure that, if you're using log returns, work with the cum sum and summation parts. If you're using simple or arithmetic returns, you have to work with the product functions. So like I mentioned earlier, since the van, it's like, again, it's like asking, should I be measuring somebody's weight in kilograms or pounds? The point is, if you're measuring it in kilograms, make sure you keep measuring it in kilograms, and don't suddenly change the unit to pounds, because then the observations will not make sense, right? If half of the class has been measured in kilograms, and then for five people, you measure in pounds, and then you again, go back to kilograms. And if you look at the class and its entirety, assuming that everybody has been measured in the same units, that those five values are really going to look odd, right? So that's that's the point. It doesn't matter which one you choose. Understand the mechanics of what needs to be done when you work with one and make sure you follow it. Okay, you'll see it when we move to strategies. All right, okay, I'm going to go ahead and talk about the last two things, which is vectorized back testing versus event driven back testing. There is a third concept I want to talk about, and then I'll move on to the shift operator. Okay, so when you talk about vectorized back testing, for your information, what we covered today, in today's class, is it comes under this category. So what is it? When you say, vectorized first, first things first? It is a it is a method for back testing, where you arrange your data in a way that everything is arranged in the form of a matrix, right? So you will have, like, many rows. The rows typically denote your timestamps, so it could be days or hours or minutes or weeks or some such, and you're depending on the frequency at which you have sampled your data, measured your data, such as daily prices or some such, and your columns will be, say, close, prices, returns, maybe indicators, you might have created indicators like SMA five and sma 20 and so on, right. So everything is arranged in the form of in the form of matrices, and that allows you to perform calculations like super fast. How does it happen? Super fast, because you have the entire power of linear algebra that comes to your rescue, right? So NumPy, for instance, the way NumPy works is, it loves to have the data arranged in this manner so that you want to do, say, comparisons of two columns and create a new column for, you know, saying, buy, sell, hold. Similarly, you want to multiply two columns, or you want to multiply one column with the delayed or, you know, slightly moved versions of another column. We want to do all sorts of calculations using Array Operations. It's really fast. It's very good when it comes to prototyping of strategies, when you're doing like, you know, a quick scan of whether something looks good or not. Vectorized approach works really well. In fact, it is highly recommended when you are doing your preliminary analysis of strategies. Okay, so then, what is a so I gave you all the pros of using vectorized now, what is the problem with vectorized? Well, the problem is it is not realistic enough, right? And if you want to get a truer picture of how your strategy will perform once it's let out in the wild, then you need to use some form of event driven testing, right? However, event driven testing is a costly operation, costly in what sense? Costly in that it is computationally expensive. It takes longer, and it's also it takes longer with regard to creating the code for it to create a program for it to account for all the difficult, different doses of realism that you need to inject in it to make sure it behaves the way it would in markets is not the easiest thing to do, right? So, event driven, what it does is it, it would simulate things like orders, the fact that orders sometimes don't get filled, right? You might send a limit order and the order doesn't get filled. You might send a bar. Market order and only partially gets filled, right? There are slippages that occur. There are you have to deal with the dynamics of the order book, right? All these things are also sort of taken into account when you deal with events. Now, simply put, when we talk about event, driven back testing an event is what is. Every candle is called an event, right? So every time a new occurrence of of a day or a minute or an hour occurs, calculations are re performed, okay? So suppose we have set up our algo, and we want our algo to work with 15 minute data. Okay, so 15 minute data means your hour is split into four parts. You have say, six to seven hours of trading that occurs in a day. So let's imagine there are six hours of trading from 9:30am to 3:30pm so in six hours, it has to do the checks 24 times in total, right? It will start at 930-945-1015 1030 1045, 1111, 1511, 30, and so on. Right? It happens like all those times. So what happens through the days? At 930 a set of calculations will happen, and it will and will do the comparison to see if certain conditions are getting met, whether it should. Are any entry, entry conditions getting met or exit conditions getting met, and it will follow through on it. Then, after 15 minutes, it will do a check again, based on the new candle that arrives. Right, because you are working with 15 minute data. So 15 minutes hence, an event has occurred. What is the event? It is the new candle that has got created right the Open, High, Low, Close of the prior 15 minutes. So that is what we mean by event driven testing. So it's it's almost like it's working like a for loop, right every 15 minutes. It is going to fetch the prices, it is going to fetch the details of the order book and so on, and and run all the required checks, create all the new required columns, and do the comparisons to basically, uh, decide on whether to close or open a position and stuff, right? So that is what happens in the case of event driven testing. Now, as I mentioned earlier, today's class is focused on the vectorized approach. Okay? As our lectures move along, you will also get exposed to the event driven approach, right? Should one use only event driven and ignore vectorized by no means. I would suggest anybody do that, because, like I mentioned, the process of finding a profitable strategy is like finding the metaphorical needle in a haystack, right? Well, needle in a haystack sounds a bit too it makes it sound like it's impossible to find a trading strategy, but it's like finding a needle in a in a small stack of hay, right? Maybe, maybe not like an entire shed, but a bundle, right? So it takes some amount of work. So you will start off with maybe 10 to 15 ideas, and then at every stage, you will start eliminating some, and then eventually end up with, say, two out of those initial 15 are worthwhile into taking into the markets. So should you be applying the same rigor and analysis for all 15 that you apply to the last two? The answer is no, because then you are spending too much time doing too much analysis on stuff when it is not really worth doing it. So vectorized is the part which helps you winnow down your 15 to ultimately two. So maybe in the first one or two stages you can work live with vectorized and then you start applying the event driven approaches. All right, okay,

Speaker 1  48:59  
so let's move ahead. I'm going to talk about the dot shift operator, and then after that, I'll take a look at questions. Okay, so what is the dot shift operator? It is like a very nice operation that you can do with pandas data freaks, right? And what does dot shift do? It helps you move a series by n rows. Okay. Now, when I say n rows downwards, I'm referring to positive values of n, okay. Why do we use it? Well, its main purpose is to avoid look ahead bias, right? So guess I just written look ahead here, to avoid look ahead bias, we apply the shift to make sure that you line up the signal such a way that it reflects the point at which you're going to execute the signal right. So if you don't shift, or if you incorrectly shift it, it often creates look ahead bias, which is essentially using future information earlier. Than you should, which is in the present, right? So you don't want to do that. Now, let's say we'll again, I'll show you a simple illustration of what the dot shift operator does. So again, we are downloading some Reliance prices, and we will create some basic shift operations. So if you do DF, close, dot shift one, what you're doing is you're taking the value from the previous day if you do, DF, close, dot shift two, it is from two days ago or two rows ago. DF, dot shift my. DF, close, dot shift minus one, you're taking the next day's price. DF, close, dot shift minus two, you're taking the price from two days ahead, right? So if you were to do this, what you're getting is the you can see the close prices here, right? So first Jan, it was one to two, one. Second Jan, it was 1241 it was 12511218 and so on. Now, if you notice, on second of Jan, the previous day's price was one to two, right? So that appears here. On first of Jan, the previous day's price was Nan because we only have data starting from first gen, so therefore this column is empty. It says not a number, any n, right? Similarly, two days prior is also any n, because we don't know what it was two days prior. However, dot shift minus one means you can get the next day's price. So on the first Jan, one, two, when it was 1221, the price of the close on second Jan was 1241, and the price of the close on third Jan was 125, right? So as you can see, what happens is this entire column, 1221415118, has moved downwards by one place. So it's come it's starting at second, Jan, third, Jan, six, Jan and so on, right? So that is what the dot shift operator does. You can see what it does previous day, two days prior, next day, and two days later, you can do all that. And this, we use it a lot in our calculations. So that is what the dot shift operator does. So I've covered these four different concepts here. I'll take a quick look at questions to see if I need to answer any of them. So Jesse says In previous lecture was advice to use simple returns. Yeah. I mean, you can use simple returns, but I think you can also use log returns. I think it's a it's a case of what instructors or practitioners like to work with. I suppose simple returns is easier to relate to, so maybe that's why some people prefer it. Shreyas asked, Do you need a powerful event, driven back test simulator? These days, you get lots of stuff online. Shreyas, in fact, I'm sort of going to even talk about one of the products we have in within quarantine. There's a specific tool we have called Blue Shift. I'm not sure if you guys have tried it, I would encourage you to try it. It's entirely free. It's called, you should do blue shift or quantity.com it's got like back testing and even live trading. And so it's a back testing engine and a live trading it allows you to do live trading with certain brokers and stuff. So check it out, so that that incorporates an event driven approach. Manikandan asked, in what scenario should we use vectorized, and what scenario should we use event driven? I just spoke about Manikandan when you want to do like quick testing, vectorized is a better approach. And as you start filtering through your strategies and find like a few more promising ones. That is, when you should start applying the event driven approach, right? Because it's more realistic. Angsha, can we say that vectorize should be used for in sample? Event or No, no, that's not. No, it. That's not entirely true in sample. Out of sample, is just the way you divide your entire data. Okay? So it's not really linked with vectorize and event driven better. Shreya says exchanges only display two decimal price data. How does raw have four so the thing is, exchanges also display two decimal price data. It's not that they have two decimals. So again, if you fetch data using brokers and stuff depending. So the point is that data itself exists with probably much more, even more than four. I suppose it's just that it's easier to display, therefore it shows you two disk Zubin asked, is there a logic test to check for inadvertent use? I think it's just, you just need to be really careful Zubin. There is no real test as such. It's just that sometimes I think you can try to send it to a lack but the thing is, even with like so, even language models like your chat GPT, are not that good at picking it up. They sometimes miss it, even if it exists. So I think it's just a little bit of practice, maybe getting somebody else to look at your code. And sometimes we get blindsided by our own work. Yeah, that's how it is. So Jesse asked, in order to generate a profitable strategy, do you usually combine No, not necessary. Jesse, see, look, finding a profitable strategy is, really it's just about finding inefficiencies in the pricing that exists in the markets of markets of your preference, right? So mispricing happens all the time in every market. The point is, how long is something mispriced? So what do I mean by mispriced? It is either under or over based on patterns of the past, right? So if somehow you are able to find the mispricing, and you can make money, and you will be surprised to see and know that even the ostensibly simpler approaches, like the moving averages, which have been around for probably more than a century, are still profitable today, right? Are they profitable in all assets? No. Are they profitable in all markets, in all markets, yes, but sections of all markets, right? It may work in certain, in certain for certain instruments, right? So the point is about finding it there so you don't necessarily need to combine strategies. I mean, as you get more and more comfortable with things, that is when I will ask you to do these kind of things, combining and stuff. Excuse me, my my suggestion to any upcoming and aspiring algo trader always is, try to see what you can do with the simpler approaches. And then as you get, as you start acquiring experience, that's when you should start, you know, trying the some of the fancy stuff out. So menukas, any starting point on how to select a stock universe, I think it depends on your capital and what you intend to do and stuff. There are so many depends before I answer that question. But a simple rule of thumb is stick to the all the stocks in a particular index, because, you know, they are well established forms. So if you're in India, for instance, maybe you can pick the top 100 credit forms. So that would mean all your nifty 50 plus the next 50 or the next 100, right? Sonia asked, What do you think about overfitting and what features are best? Again, these are slightly off topic. Yeah, overheating is a real problem in our line of work. We just have to be careful. And kind of when the time comes, I think instructors will talk about how you can guard yourself against overfitting. All right, what number of features are best? No, that's a highly open ended question. There's no, there's no magic number there. Okay. Vishal, asked, are the answers for simple return compounding and lockdown? No, they are not. As I mentioned. Is your weight the same when you measure it in kilos and pounds. Vishal, I'm sure it's not right. I don't know you. I haven't seen you, but I'm willing to bet my last rupee that your weight will not be the same if you measure it in kilos and pounds, right? So that's what. So Jesse asked after a while, strategy stopped working. If they stop working, will it never work? So this is the nature of strategies. Jesse strategies, yes, they do get phased out. And if they stop working on an asset, maybe you need to tweak it a little again. This is so subjective that I can't give you a clear cut answer, but I'll say this that,

Speaker 1  58:39  
no, it's not true that it will never work for that asset again. It it will work at some point, but you need to tweak it a bit sometimes, you know, just a little change here and there, and it could still yield you some fairly good returns. Happy hours. How do we find new strategies? I think I spoke about in the very first slide, right? So a lot of so I think not enough attention is paid to the execution of strategies. So people are like, I think we as a as a community, we tend to look for profitable strategies, but we don't think hard enough about implementing strategies right, because a lot of times things go wrong in execution, because we haven't thought enough about how are we going to strategize between limit orders, market orders market orders and so on? Okay, so I'm going to move on and come back to questions later. Okay,

Speaker 1  59:40  
I think I'm going to just respond to one comment that I just saw so happily. Says, I believe if a strategy is out in public, the edge might be over again. This is too open ended. What happens typically is right? You will never get to know the entire picture about a strategy. Strategy. What do I mean by that? It means there are many little parts to a strategy. Somebody might say, I use the SMA on nifty 50 and it was profitable. Now this person has only said it's SMA may not have given, has not given you the details of which SMA right, has not told you, is it working on daily data or intraday, right? So, there are so many aspects to a strategy that when you say, if a strategy is out in public, just a statement like SMA strategies, I use SMA on the nifty 50, is a highly incomplete statement. There are many parts there which can lead to virtually 100 types of strategies just by that one statement, right? So that is one part to it. Second is, like I mentioned earlier, a lot has to do with execution. Okay?

Speaker 1  1:00:58  
So Jesse says some strategies are specifically tweaked to show great return. So look, I think what we do in the ePAT is right, all strategies and all things we discuss are used purely from an instructional standpoint. So sometimes you will see strategies that look profitable, sometimes you will see strategies that look horrible, okay, horribly loss making. And you might wonder, why is the instructor teaching us? You must understand that everything that is being taught is being used as a teaching device. It is not to show you that, hey, use this and try this out in the markets. Some instructors there may talk about something that worked for them in the past, right? Some instructors, what they do is they look at the strategy purely as a tool in order to demonstrate a set of ideas, right? And I think that is how one should view it, unless the instructor specifically says that, hey, listen, this approach made me a lot of money in the past. Maybe you guys want to, might want to take it, tweak it, and see if it still makes money for you, right? That is how I think one should look at any strategy that is spoken of, not just here. I'm saying anywhere you come across, right, especially in a in a teaching context, in an instructional context.

Speaker 1  1:02:19  
So Olin asks, Are you guys allowed to share? So the thing with strategies Olin is that they are so specific to individuals. Why am I saying that? It's, you know, the typical caveat you get when you read about, say, mutual funds, right? So something, somebody would say mutual funds are subject to market risk, or when people give financial advice also, right? You need to have a certain set of licenses for anyone to even offer advice to another one. Right? The reason for that is that you need to so before I give you or anybody, a profitable strategy? I have no idea about your background in terms of what is the capital you have? How important is that capital to you? Are you using that capital to maintain or sustain your lifestyle? I have no idea, right? Or is this like money that you would go and spend in a casino? So if I don't know that, how can I recommend you a strategy which could be a highly risky strategy, but it has, let's say, a 20% probability of giving you 300% returns in one year. But it only has a 20% probability for that, and it has like a, let's say, an 80% probability of giving you 30% minus 60% returns. Right? So I there is no way I'm going to suggest this to anybody if I don't know you, and even if I know you, I'm going to have like, 100 caveats I'm going to add there, right? That's typically how it goes. That is, that is, like, one very important reason why people do not just say that, hey, go do this like any responsible person would not do that. Also, the most important thing, as I mentioned earlier, is that you have to be a licensed financial advisor to start giving strategies to people, right? So that is that, as far as strategies and profitability goes, okay? So we've gone through, like, lots of questions. I'm going to now go to the lecture, because we've got sidetracked quite a bit, if the questions, by the way, I really enjoyed answering many of these questions. Very nice questions to make the class also, I think, hopefully, interesting, but it also means we spent a lot of time talking about other stuff. All right. I'm going to spend, like, a couple of minutes introducing the first strategy of the day, and then we'll go for a break. Okay, all right, so after spending sufficient time on everything else, we are now jumping to the very first strategy. So the first strategy for the day. Is a simple moving average. The idea being, we are going to work with a long and lean approach. Okay, so step one is coming up with a trading idea. Now here, we've already come up with this trading idea because I have written it right here in front of you, right it's on your screen. Here, what we'll do is we are going to work with five minute data, and we will calculate sma 12. Why did I pick estimate? Well, I picked it up. I picked it for fun, really? Why? Because 12 five minute intervals makes it one hour. So if I compute the simple moving average of 12 periods, it's like the average price over the previous one hour, right? The conditions are like, super simple. So if the price exceeds sma 12, we go long and we stay invested until the square off condition is satisfied. So in the case of the square off, when the price becomes less than sma 12, we will square off our position, right? So that's we've essentially just stated the rules here. Okay, just a second. I just got an alert that my computer battery is weak. Just want to make sure my computer is getting charged. Okay, cool. My charge is working? Yes, sorry, coming back to the strategy we we will square off when the price is less than or equal to estimate. Well, so the rest of my class is split into many class exercises. So class exercise one consists of step two and step seven. Now step two and step seven, I will refer to the slide deck. So step two, incidentally, was downloading the data, and step seven was the contingency plan, right? So contingency means if I did not, or if why finance fails, or if I can't download, what do it right? That's what it is. So here, what we'll do is we'll import the required libraries. We'll create a variable called end one. Actually, we won't make it today. We'll make it some other day. We'll see, we'll, we'll see what to do. We'll create a variable called start one, which is 50 days prior. Use why finance to download the data for Nvidia. I think currently, Nvidia is the most valuable company in the world. If I, I think I kind of read that somewhere, if you look at market cap, the data has to be at five minute intervals. And yeah, that's what we'll do. So let's just do the first few steps, and then we'll go for a break. Okay, so we are importing a bunch of libraries, pandas, NumPy, all the usual stuff. One interesting library we are using here is date time, which makes it easy for us to work with dates and times, which are a regular feature in all our data sets, right? Because our index, we always index our data based on dates and times. So we'll import all this stuff here. What we are doing is we are saying end one is Date Time, dot, Date Time, dot, today, dot, date. So what this does is it pulls out today's date. So if you do what end one is, it will tell you it is 22nd November, 20/21, and then we say start one is 50 days before end one. So it gives you that it was third of October. Now you have, you know, features like these, even in let me see just a minute.

Speaker 1  1:08:52  
Yeah, so you have these kind of features even in Excel. So let me show you on Excel. You might have tried this before, but I'll just show you for fun. So Excel, also, if you see, you can do something like today, right? So it will tell you it's 22nd November, and you can do things like plus 50, right? You can do minus 50, stuff like that on Excel. So obviously, if you can do it on Excel, you can sure as hell do it on pandas, right? Okay, I accidentally took that sharing away. Where are we here? Yes, so that's what we've done here. And then you download the required data. You download it at an interval of five minutes, which you can specify, and then you can see what BF gives you. So it has like 2800 rows of data from third October to 21st November, and it's at five minute interval. Right? So 1330 1335 1340 and so on Here I'm just like reordering them, because I have it like in alphabetical order. I don't like that. I don't like the fact that adjusted closes first and then it's so I reorder it the way I like it. And then I, yeah, I just reorder it and I see how it looks. Okay. Now it's the way I like it. It's called Open, High, Low, Close, and all of that. Okay. Now, for the sake of this strategy, we are going to work with a data file called Nvidia, five minute interval. Now this is from a different time period. So you just read the CSV file in you might have seen that in the previous class, and we set a flag called past dates equal to true, which tells pandas that any date or any any column that looks or smells like a date should be treated like one. That's what this essentially does. So we do that, and so you you have, like, the date, time, which is an index, and you have the Open, High, Low, Close and stuff, right? So you have all the data you need. You have 3200 rows of data, right? So we're going to work with this. So let's then come back to class exercise two in a little while. I'm going to give you guys a short break. Let me see what the time is. So the time is slightly delayed because I was hoping to give you a little earlier. So it's about 1714 Let's resume at 1724 so I'll see you guys in about 10 minutes. You.

Speaker 1  1:16:16  
Step wise, and keep checking periodically so see some of the things we do are not directly related to creating the strategy is also to do with figuring out how you write the code, right. So here, for instance, what you want to do is you want to plot Open, High, Low, Close for a given date. So I, just for fun, I wrote it as 12th May. You can make it whatever date you want. Delete certain columns. You create a column called CC returns, which shows returns between successive close prices, right? You create a variable called SMA and assign it a value 12. You create a column called SMA, which is a 12 period moving average. And you create a column called position, which takes the value one when you go long and zero otherwise, right? So in this strategy, anyways, you don't have going short. So either you are invested, which is your at plus one that is going long, or you are out of the market, which means you have liquidated your investments, or you have never made an investment, right? So you will be at zero. So let's try that. Let's make a plot of some day. So I have taken 19th May. You can make it whatever date you want, really, you can make 12th may also and try. So 12th may gives you some plot, right? It gives you the Open, High, Low, Close for that entire period, right? As you can imagine, high will always be high. So the orange line stays above the all the other lines because it's high. Similarly, green will always be the lowest line because it's the low for every candle. So you have this open, high, low, close through that entire period for that day. On the x axis, you have the time, and on the y axis you have the price. Okay? Here, there's a optional way to plot it here, what we are doing is we are using Plotly. So with Plotly, you have interactive plots, right? So you can do it for fun. Again, we are plotting it for 20th may just we picked another day. And the thing with Plotly is you have this where you can hover over it and you it will give you the price at that point in time, right? You can even do things like you want to zoom into a certain period. You can do that, and you can access it more closely, and stuff like that. So you can try that stuff when you work with Plotly. Okay, so now let's get to the real work, which is, we take out all the columns we don't need. We calculate a column called CC returns, which is the percentages. And we had seen percentage change before. It's just simple. When you see percentage change, you know that we are working with simple returns, right? So you run it, and then you have, you create a column called SMA, which is the 12 period moving average. So you do that also, and then you can do head. So when you do head, you see that now you have two new columns, which is cc returns and SMA, right? So you have open, close, adjusted close, cc returns and SMA. You can also do tail and check what it looks like. So you have all the values at the bottom. You have CC returns as well as SMA.

Speaker 1  1:19:49  
Okay, so I have a bit of a sword Road, guys, I think I might have coughed really loudly in your ears in the i. Period before the break this time, I'll just make sure that if I need to cough, I'll put myself on mute so I don't torture your ears. All right. Okay. Now, based on

Speaker 1  1:20:20  
the plan, we have, which is your our rules, we will buy when the price is greater than sma 12, right? So this is what we want to do, and square off when the price is less than equal to estimate one. So here what we'll do is we

Speaker 1  1:20:49  
where are we? Yes. So you want to make sure that if the price that is close is greater than sma 12, you want to encode it as one. Else you will encode it as zero. So that is what np dot, where does it allows you to specify a condition and the value if it is true and the value if it is false, right? That is what we are doing here. So you run that. So now you have a new column called position, which has got created. Now what we have to do is we have to basically what is happening is this comparison is happening between these two columns, right, 136 and this one, 130 6.76 and 130 6.03 so whenever this comparison happens, and let's say this becomes one, it means that you go long at this stage right

Speaker 1  1:21:47  
now, the thing is, this percentage change that we have used, right the CC returns that we have computed, sorry, assumes at any point so the CC returns computed here presumes that you bought at the previous candle and you sold at this candle, right? So, which means that if you have a one here, the one implies that you buy at 130, 5.55 and you will sell when that one becomes zero, right? Which means, even if the one appears at 7:45pm right? It means you're buying at 130 5.65 not selling at 130 5.6 so essentially, what that means is we have to shift the position vector by one downwards. So that is why we do the dot shift operation here, right? So we apply the dot shift to ensure that we account or consider the way the CC returns works. CC returns always assumes that you bought at the previous candle. Right at this stage, you can do a count of how many ones exist and how many zeros exist in your entire data set. So what we see is that you have 117, 55 times and zero, 1400 times, which means you have been long for more than 50% of that entire period of two months, right? So now the next thing you want to do is you want to you want to go to class exercise three, where you will calculate indicators, create rules and program things. So here you create a column called strategy returns, which gives you the strategy returns over the back testing period, check the first few rows and then plot the returns for buy and hold and strategy right now, for strategy returns. What we do is we will multiply the CC returns by the position vector, right? So what this does is, when you multiply CC returns by position vector, is that whenever it is zero, it means the returns at that in that particular candle do not matter to you, right, because you are anyways, not invested. So you can easily multiply the two, and it will anyways come to zero, whereas, if this position vector is one, this value defect is effectively, is applicable to you, right? So what this means is, since, since we already know this, right? We know that there are 1755 ones and 1400 zeros, right? Let's try to imagine this on a spreadsheet. Let me take a spreadsheet for fun. Let me share the spreadsheet.

Speaker 1  1:24:46  
So you have a column called CC returns, and you have a column called position, and you have a column called A. Strategy returns right.

Speaker 1  1:25:10  
Let's let me see. Let me pull some values from here. I

Speaker 1  1:25:24  
So I've just taken some values. Let's see how I forgot to change the color of the someone had said to change the color. Let me change it to light. Okay. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:25:56  
okay, so what I'll do is I will add some for fun, 000110010011,

Speaker 1  1:26:09  
right? This is like a set of numbers I have, and let me take these values.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:22  
Okay, so all of these are negative values, so let me see.

Speaker 1  1:26:34  
So say this was 0.001 0.004 point 004, 0.006

Unknown Speaker  1:26:49  
maybe this can be negative 0.005 negative 0.004303.

Speaker 1  1:27:01  
A 03, and this can be 0.01 Okay, so let's say you have this now, what are algo says this, or our statement says strategy returns is a product of these two, right? So you will multiply these two numbers. So you multiply this with this. With this. So since we already know how to compute returns overall, what we'll have to do is we'll have to do this right, one plus r1, multiplied by one plus r2, multiplied by one plus r3 we had seen that in the session prior, right? This is what we'll have to do to one plus whatever R 15, depending on how many other days you have, right? That is what we have to do. So you can create a column called one plus strategy returns. So it can be one plus this number. So you have this across this entire period, and you have to calculate the product of all these numbers, right? So if you calculate the product of all these numbers,

Speaker 1  1:28:21  
it will give you the returns across this entire period. So in this case, it is this minus one, and if you check the percentage, it is like minus point to 2% right? So why am I showing you this to give you an idea of what is happening in that specific step, right strategy returns. So this is what we have done, right we are multiplying these two. So when you do like a tail, you get like a product of position by cc returns. And then we do this, which I just showed you right strategy, returns is one plus and if you want to do CC returns, you just add one that will help you get a idea for buy and hold. So then, now that you have this also in the One Plus form, and this also in the One Plus form, you can directly do come broad. You don't have to do one plus r, because one plus r has got calculated and been stored in strategy returns and CC returns, right? So you can do that and you do show right? So when you look at the plot, you can see that the strategy actually performed pretty decently in a certain period, but after that, buy and hold is doing a lot better, right? So this period, for like, few days, the strategy outperformed, buy and hold in May, April, May, from 22nd May till about 8/22. April to about eighth, May. It seems like the strategy was doing pretty well, right? So. So if you look at the overall returns of this strategy, what we'll do is we'll have to look at the last value of that come broad in that column and subtract one from it, right? So this minus one index minus one gives you the last value in the column. The last value is really the last day on which we are judging the strategy, and we subtract one from it. So this, when you, when you run this, you it gives you the returns over that entire period. So in that period, the returns on Nvidia were 29% whereas the strategy returns were 16% that's what this essentially tells you, right in this entire period. So now I'm going to take a quick look at questions before I go ahead.

Speaker 1  1:30:53  
Okay, so happy says the code looks overwhelming as of now, let me I'll walk through certain parts. Don't worry. Happy. Obviously, if you see these codes for the first time, it looks a little scary. Akshay asked, Why are we using Shift while determining position? Couldn't we directly apply com prod? Shouldn't we take the previous and multiply? Okay, wait, wait, let me.

Speaker 1  1:31:19  
Okay, okay, so let's go slowly for the questions that people are asking. Okay, so the part, okay, so first thing I want to tell you is, do not get scared by code. Okay, that's the first step. We currently live in the era of chat GPT, right? So, which means that we always have the option of using one of these language model tools to generate code for us and then directly run it. Should we do that? I would say, No, not at the beginning of your journey of learning coding, right at the start, you need to get comfortable with how these data frames work and stuff. Use chatgpt to assist you, but try to, you know, kind of use your own mind to understand what is happening. Use chatgpt to help you understand the code. Yes, okay, now, let's now, I'll talk about the parts that you need to concentrate on with regard to so everything that I mentioned as optional, please ignore. In case you are new to programs and new to coding. Do not spend any time on looking at optional stuff. Okay, because that obviously it looks scary, and you might feel that I can't understand what is going on. Okay, now let's talk about the core strategy. So when we talk about the core strategy, I'm steps like these are really to delete columns that we don't need, right? We don't we are not using high, low and volume here, so you get you delete them, and you're only working with CC return. So this is a step we had seen earlier, right? To compute this, we just use percentage change, and we use rolling mean to compute the simple moving average. Now, this, again, had been done in many of your Excel based lectures, right? So in Excel, you, you to used to do it in a particular way. In in Python, what you have to do it your is you have to specify that you're computing the moving average, or what is called the rolling average in Python. So you say, dot ruling, and you specify that the length of your rolling should be 12. So window equal to 12 ensures that we are specifying how long we want it to be, how far back we want to go, and dot mean. Means you're computing the rolling average, not the rolling standard deviation, rolling, volume, rolling, median, rolling min, rolling Max. No, you're computing the rolling mean, right? That's what you do here. This is an important step, because this is where you're I would say creating the rule that you had written in English, right? So NP, dot where DF one a close greater than Df one a SMA is the way for you to express that if this rule is correct, you want it to be coded as one. Else you want it to be zero, right? One of the students, somebody asked, What if you get a succession of ones? It just means that you continue to stay invested, right? So, as per your rules, if it is continuously one, it means, suppose I get the one today. It means I buy it today, tomorrow. I five minutes. Actually, this is five minute data. Sorry, not tomorrow. So if I buy it at at, say, 11am it because I got a one signal, I will, I will check again at 11 five. If it continues to stay one, I will not do anything to my stock. I'll check again at 1110 if it's one, I won't do anything. 1115, 1120, I keep checking. Suppose at 1125 it becomes zero. At 1125 I sell what I bought at 11, right? That is what I'm essentially doing. So that is what the one tells me. The one tells me that I stay invested and I liquidate the moment it turns zero, right? One of. The questions asked was, why are we shifting it by one now again, let me go back to Excel to demonstrate this point, see,

Speaker 1  1:35:17  
see what happens with the column, cc returns. Let's understand what is happening with CC returns. Okay, suppose you have close prices here and CC returns here, right? You have a column called CC returns. Suppose you have dates like first, Jan, 2025, second, Jan, 2025,

Speaker 1  1:35:40  
right? So you have these prices, and let me just take these prices for fun.

Speaker 1  1:35:50  
Suppose these prices repeat, who cares doesn't matter, okay? And then finally, it is this price, okay? These are the prices over this period. Now for CC returns, the way it operates is, you cannot compute CC returns on first Jan because you don't have the price for 31st December, but you can compute it for second Jan because it is going to be, this is the value it's getting that's going to get computed, right? This is the value that gets computed for all the days. And suppose you have a position vector here, for which it's comparing with SMA. So I'm not writing the SMA here, but imagine that you're getting these signals. Okay, here you won't get anything. Here you get a 00, here you get 111, it becomes zero again. Then you get one, one, and then zero. Okay, suppose this is the signals you get. What it means is so here you got zero, nothing. Here you got zero, nothing to be done the moment you get one here at this point in time, this means that you are buying at if you get one year, it means you will buy at 130, 5.226898 right? That's what it means. But the problem is this value, cc returns this value. I'm going to mark this as yellow, right. This yellow value assumes that you bought at 130 5.650208 and sold at 130, 5.226898 right, because it's getting computed here. And as you can see, it is J 21 divided by J 20 right. So if that is the assumption, then, and if you want to use the CC returns column, then really the number that matters to you is this number minus 0.00307 because this assumes that you bought at 130, 5.2282268

Unknown Speaker  1:38:11  
right, and that is the reason we shift this entire column by one. So let me state it in words, so we shift

Speaker 1  1:38:19  
the position column by One place downwards, because percentage change assumes that by occurred one period prior, right? So, in order to correct so, in order to correct for it, we need to shift the position call, right? That's what we are doing. So hopefully that should make it clear. In case you're still not clear when the recording is up from this lecture, please go to this part of the lecture and watch what I've mentioned here. Okay, the shifting operation, correct? That is why we are doing this. Okay, so going back to the notebook,

Speaker 1  1:39:32  
that is why we do this shifting Okay. After that, the rest of it is, you know, multiplying the CC returns by position to this is to enable us to compute the strategy returns using the same principle of one plus r1, plus r, the one that I spoke about, right? So the rest of it is really operationalizing what I had spoken about. So you compute strategy returns, then you do a one plus r, which I had spoken about. Again, you do one plus R. Here, and you do a comprot, and this time you're not doing one plus, because the One Plus has been done in these two cells already, right? So you can do a plot, all right? And eventually these lines are about getting the last line. So okay, let's understand this line. Okay, whenever you encounter something as crazy as this, let's go to our trusted Excel sheet again. So if you encounter something crazy in code, right, like this, the first thing you should do when you see such a long big thing is try to find the part which is most inside. Don't look for the outside parts. Look for the inside part. So the when you look at the inside part, the first thing you should notice is there is this cum, prod, right? So, cum, prod, cud of what? Cum prod, of CC returns. So this is the part, right? So you're doing cc returns.com you know what component does? It keeps on multiplying successively. So cumulative product means at this point in time, right at this point in time, it will multiply these two numbers. At this point in time, it will multiply these three numbers. At this point in time, it will multiply these four numbers, right? It's the point until which it has reached. So that is what compound does. Now the moment you do use the minus one operator, operator as an index. This implies you are picking the last element in that row, sorry, in that column. Okay, that is what you're doing, and not just that you're so basically here, here you are firstly taking com prod, then after that, you're picking the last element. Not just that from the last element, you're subtracting one, right? Why is that? Because it is that one plus R series. So you have to subtract one to know the returns. And if that isn't enough, you're saying this number is going to look very ugly because it will have, like, too many decimal points, like these numbers, right? 0.00357, and stuff. So on this entire expression you are applying, NP, dot, round. What does NP? Dot, round, do NP, dot, round. Rounds up numbers. How? By checking how many digits should be there beyond the the decimal point, that's what it is doing, right? So, NP, dot, round this entire mess. Comma two tells it that there should be only two digits beyond the decimal point. All right, that is what is happening. So now let's go back to the code. So that is what is happening here. Okay, in this step. So here it is telling you 0.29 which is really 29% 29% and this is 0.16 which is 16% that is what this last step is telling you. Okay, so now again, I'm going to take a look at questions, hopefully some clarity would have emerged from what we've been talking for the last few minutes. Okay?

Speaker 1  1:43:42  
If couldn't we directly apply the comfort formula? Happy? I hope you got why what we were doing here, Joshua, 10 hours. Should we take the previous rows position and multiply it by the current rows returns? Because So, Joshua, I think you got it. I explained it a little more. So hopefully there should be more clarity. Is it rolling returns? So, Sonia asked, Is it rolling returns? Rolling returns is the same as moving so, no, these are not rolling returns, by the way. These are just returns on successive candles. Okay, could we do it with EMA instead of SMA? Yes, we will do it. In fact, in the second part of what we are doing. It is working with EMA. I'll show you how we do it. Okay? Aditya padman asked, What if we don't enter minus one? So I don't know what you mean. So when you say minus one, are you referring to within the square braces, if you don't put the square braces, it will subtract one from the entire column. Okay? And if you don't put the minus one outside the square basis, it will pick the last value anyways. So that value will will not give you a percentage value, it will give you a multiplication factor for your capital. Okay. Oh, happy hours. I. Was asking that while adding total simple returns, we could use compromise directly. Yeah. I mean, you can, you can use it slightly differently. Look, this is I've shared a code with you. Okay, if there are parts where you feel I would have preferred it to be slightly different, you're free to change it a little bit. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:45:22  
yeah, so let's move on. Now strategy 1b is very similar to what we did in one A, okay. The only difference between the two is, in B, we are going to start working with exponential moving averages. Now, how is an exponential moving average different from a simple moving average? What changes is that the weight that we apply to any of the past prices will not be constant. Now, implicitly, when you calculate simple moving average, you assume that all previous observations of prices matter equally, right in EMA. What we are saying is that the recent past should have higher importance than the distant past. So you'll have higher weights assigned to the recent observed prices and lower weights assigned to the farther observed prices. The question now is, how will you decide on the weights. Well, the good thing is, you don't have to, because these modern finance libraries directly calculated right now, the benefit of Ema is it reacts faster to price movements. Now, class exercise four is a replication of the previous strategy, just using EMA. Now, since the entire strategy is the same, I'm going to go over it a lot faster and only concentrate on those lines where there is a substantive difference in what we did. Okay, so if you notice what we do here, this essentially gives you all the steps that we follow. So we create a copy of DF called DF, 1v we create a variable called EMA, and then we create a column called EMA, CC, returns same position vector and so on. Okay, so do you have DF head? And so on. Okay, so we so the only difference, important point to note is this line. So here we say, DF, one, we close.ew, M, span equal to EMA, adjust equal to false. This is what you have to say. So this, this implies exponentially weighted. Mean, that's what this means, exponentially weighted. Yeah, metric. I think it's called, okay, so that's what you do. And you run this whole thing. And eventually, if you look at the strategy, buy and hold gives you 1.29 and strategy gives you 1.22 by the way, here, if you notice, we haven't subtracted one, and therefore you end up with 1.29 and 1.2 so if you look at the last two lines, I haven't done minus one, right? So if I do minus one, it will give 29 and 22 by the way, I want to draw your attention to one more thing here, if you notice, I have applied a dot shift two at this point in time compared to dot shift one here. So there were some questions around, why have we applied dot shift? Why one? Why 2x what the dot shift operator essentially tells you is the latency between signal occurrence or signal observation and execution, right? So shift two essentially tells you that suppose I get the signal now, by the time I apply the signal, it will be five minutes later. So the more I increase the value inside that shift parentheses, it means, the later I'm going to react to the signal that occurred. Right now it depends on you how much you want to how long you want to wait. Sometimes signals are short lived so for if a signal occurs and you take a lot of time to react, you may completely miss the bus, or you may not make as much profit as you could have potentially made otherwise, right? But it is something to keep in mind. It the number you put in the within parentheses there gives you some implicitly tells you how much of latency you expect in your strategy. That is reaction time from obtaining signal. What is the code for EMA? I mean, the code is right here, Shreyas. I think Shreyas was asking, what is the code? This is the code. Okay. Now in terms of what. I want you guys to do, there's a small home exercise for you. It is to go and read about simple and exponential moving average. So I want you to pay special attention to where SMA is preferred over EMA or vice versa. Okay, then now, the next strategy that I want to discuss with you guys is called the big moves on Monday. This is my favorite part of the lecture. This is, like a pretty interesting, and I would say, interesting strategy where there are multiple things we are doing, and it should, you know, give you guys a pretty good idea of all the different steps that we take typically when we are writing the code for strategies. Okay? Now, what this strategy suggests is that we go long on the SNP 500 on a on a Monday, okay, of a week, trading week, and we close out our position on the Friday of that week based on certain conditions. Okay, we assume that positions can be taken only in periods when markets are open from Monday to Friday in a specific week and Friday of the previous week, right? So you will not trade in weeks where suppose Wednesday was a holiday, right? The markets were closed on a Wednesday or Thursday. You will not invest in those weeks. Now, the thing about trading calendars is you always know that trading calendar for the next one year or so. It is not that the trading calendar will be revealed like a few days before, right? So, for instance, the whole 2026, trading calendar is known to all, all participants, not just participants, anybody. You go to the website of any of the exchanges, nse, NYSE, SDx, any, any part of the world, and check their trading days. You will, you will know it. I mean, you can just look it up, right? So it's very easy to program this that I don't want to stay invested in weeks where markets are closed and stuff. Okay, so for simplicity, we have assumed this. Now, what do we do? We calculate the following indicators and back test the conditions. So what we first do is we calculate the 25 so all this is based on a strategy for which I've shared a link. Okay, you can check it out later. It's on a website called quantified strategies.com Okay. So what you do is you calculate the 25 day average of relative range, which where in relative range itself is defined as high minus low divided by close. Okay. Then the next thing is the Monday close must be lower than the previous Friday close by at least point two, five times of rail range. Ma, right. If this condition is met and certain other conditions are met, you will go long at close on Monday, right? Then you create a variable, IBS, which is close minus low, divided by happiness, low. This has to be lower than point three. If conditions in two and three are met, you go long and you square off your condition on Friday of that week, right? Which brings us to classic size five, and here we are going to follow the approach of functional programming. In functional programming, what you do is you encase different parts of your workflow into functions, right? You try to give them nice names, and they should have a very clear set of things that happen, which is based on the name, and in fact, should mirror the operations that you follow when you are writing the strategy right. So here, what we'll do is we create a function called download daily data, whereas the name suggests we will use why finance to automatically download right based on three arguments, ticker, start, date and date. Then you want to create a function called compute daily returns, where you calculate log returns. Notice what we are doing here, by the way, guys, we are working with log daily returns. Before this, we were working with simple five minute returns. So that automatically means you won't see the word come prod. You will see the word comes some in this program. Okay, you want to create three variables, sticker, two and two, start two, and you want to initialize them to spy and two and start to as the as shown.

Speaker 1  1:54:37  
Now, Spy, by the way, is the SNP, 500 ETF. It's called Spider SPDR, which which is like a proxy for investing in the SNP 500 it's a exchange rate fund. Okay, so once you do that, you'll use download daily data, and then you will compute daily data. So. Okay, so download daily data is you create a function by using the keyword def. So it's called download daily data, ticker, Start, End. You, in fact, provided a doc string also, which says the function downloads daily market data using y friends API. So you do that, you reorder the columns the way we like it, and, yeah, that's what you do here. Okay? So you do that, and similarly you compute, you create a function called compute daily returns, which computes daily log returns based on close prices, right? So you do NP, dot, log data close, divided by data. Close, dot shift one, right. So previous days, close, you want to do this for this period, for 15 years, between 2005 and 2020 right. So at this point in time, you can check that the start is sixth of July, 2005 until second of July, 2020, so you have about 3700 rows of data, wherein the close prices were Around 119 in 2005 and they were around 383, 10 and 2020, right? Now what you do is you apply, compute daily returns, and then check so you can see clearly that there's a cc returns column that has got generated. Right? So far. So good.

Unknown Speaker  1:56:43  
Okay.

Speaker 1  1:56:57  
So now let's move to class exercise six. So before I go there again. I'll take a quick look at questions. Okay, this is a question from before, but since it's there, I'm going to answer it. Why did you add latency using shift two? Just for fun scenarios. No specific reason. It's to show you the concept, not for any other reason. Sometimes you can do it if you feel that you can't react like instantly and you think you'll react like next candle, you can make it shift to No, no specific reason to show that sometimes we have this delay before we execute on on signals that we get okay, that we receive, okay, in class exercise six, we are going to concentrate on steps five and six from our slide deck, which is writing comments in the code and fragmenting code into parts. So writing comments in the code, we've already been doing right? We have added these kind of comments, like function does this and stuff like that. And we've also fragmented the code into parts. We've, anyways, created functions. So here what we'll do is we'll create a function called compute indicators, where you will add additional columns. We call it previous day, four days after, and multiple columns, and compute each of them. Similarly, you will create a function called back test strategy, where you work with DF two from the previous step, and you will add these additional columns, condition one, two and three. Then you create a function called show back testing results, and then you run them one after the other. So for compute indicators, what we'll do is we are going to create additional columns, right? So one of the columns we create is called day, for which we will pull out the name of the day. So the way to do that is you take the index and you just pull out the day name for previous day. You just do a shift one for four days after you do Shift minus four. Similarly, to calculate relative range, you you do high minus low divided by close. And to calculate relative range moving average, you compute that 25 day moving average is all predefined by the creator of the strategy from that website. Right column created to check condition three was IBS is close minus low divided by high minus one, right? So we do this.

Speaker 1  1:59:33  
So let's run this so you have now computer indicators also then you have a cell called back test strategy, right function, where all the real operations start here, right? So now what you do is the first condition that you need to satisfy is the days, right? So you want to only trade on. Days, and that too, only on those one days when the previous trading day also was a Friday, and four days after will also be a Friday, right? So you set the conditions by using NP, dot, where, where you say that data they should be Monday. Previous day should be Friday, four days after it should be Friday. And since all have to be satisfied, you use the ampersand operator, as you can see here, right? The ampersand operator means all three conditions have to be true for it to be set as one. Else it will be set as you right? So it has to give you Monday, Friday and Friday. Now condition two has to do with the relative range, and the difference between Monday and Friday's rises, right? So for that, what you do is you do data close divided by data close shift one, so previous day one minus of that should be greater than equal to point two, five times of the L Ranger. Right now here what you're doing is you're calculating it for the full data set. Okay? Because anyways, first condition will take care of the day, so that's what you're doing. Then the third condition says iba should be less than point three, again, one or zero signal should work or should give you one only if condition one, condition two and condition three, all each of them give you one, right? So again, we have used the ampersand operator. Now, just like the previous case, you know, we created position and we shifted by stuff by one. We'll have to do that here also, right? So you have signal, but you need to shift it by one, because the returns that we compute on any given day always assumes that we bought it on the previous day and sold it on the day we are calculating right? So since that is happening, we will have to shift this by one. Then comes a very important line. So data signal dot shift one we have seen prior to this. Why we do this? Right? We had seen why we did a position. Now there is a new line, okay, let's, let's talk about this line. I'm going to go to the spreadsheet to talk about this line. Okay, this is a very important line from our program. Let me share the spreadsheet.

Speaker 1  2:02:39  
So here, what we are doing is we are saying data position. So basically it's like this, okay, right now you have a signal, okay, and signal is looking for multiple What do you say? Conditions? But let's take one of them four days after, right? So first of all, this has to be Monday, previous day has to be Friday. Four days after also has to be Friday. So this has to be satisfied, okay, apart from the other conditions. So let's suppose so this is Monday, Friday, Friday. Next day can't be obviously. This will be Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Then next week starts, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. Then the next week, Monday.

Speaker 1  2:03:51  
Suppose Tuesday was a holiday in that week, so it's Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and so on. Okay, so suppose you were to get a one here, then you get a one here. Here. You can't get a one because, anyways, four days hence is going to be a one day, right? So you got one here and here. Now, what we are saying is, so everywhere else it's z okay. Now what you're saying is you're going to create something called position, a new column called position, where you take signal, you replace zero, okay, with the previously occurring. So what dot replace does, okay, what dot replace does is it replaces what we specify with the last occurring, non zero. Value, right? As per the condition specified here, we are saying we want to replace zero. We are saying we want to use the forward fill method, right? So what is forward fill? It means that you are going to fill the forward cells with the last occurring non zero value. That's what F fill means, and limit equal to three. What does that mean you are going to fill? You

Speaker 1  2:05:43  
a maximum of three cells with the last occurring non zero value. Now the point is which cells that depends on what we say for to replace. So here, since we are saying to replace equal to zero, we are referring to cells that have zero, right? So let's imagine what is happening here. So this cell has does not have a zero, but this cell has a zero. So to replace is applicable here. And what was the last occurring non zero value. It was one, so you can replace it with one. And since we are doing forward fill, it is going further down this column, right? So you can replace this with one, this with one, and this is one, right? So three of them get filled with ones. Actually, sorry I forgot one important step. Let's do this later one minute. Let's put this here prior to this step right in our program. Let me see. Let me pull that line out.

Speaker 1  2:07:02  
Prior. To this step, there was this line of code. It said data signal is data signal dot shift one. So signal dot shift one looks like this. Okay, so this step is occurring after data signal dot shift one. Okay, fifth one means this value will come here, and everything shifts by one right, which means the one now appears next to Tuesday. This one appears next to Tuesday, and so on, right. So this position is going to occur from here, like this is one, and then after that, the first zero value that appears is here, so you replace it with the last round zero value, which is one. You replace this one also. You replace this one also. That's it. So in total, you have four cells that have one. The same thing will occur here, right? You replace so this will remain one, and this will get one. Three of them will become the next three will become one, right? So now you have

Speaker 1  2:08:18  
these two places where you have a position of one. So essentially, what this tells us is that this tells us, tells us that we go long on Monday, close and exit. Our position on Friday, because on Friday it is one, and then again on Monday it becomes zero, it becomes okay. So that is what this tells us. So that is what is happening in the program. Okay, let's come back to the sheet.

Speaker 1  2:09:12  
So that is what is happening in this step, data, position replace and strategy returns is going to be CC returns multiplied by position. So this is, again, same as previous step. And since now we are working with log returns, remember, we don't have to do a one plus. Okay, so we are not doing one plus. So now that takes care of back test strategies. You apply compute indicators, and at this stage you can even check what tail looks like. You will see that now has many new columns, right? So you have CC returns, day previous day, four days after. So on a day like Thursday, previous day will be Wednesday, four days after will be Friday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. So Wednesday. So like this for instance, right? Monday, Friday, Friday. Then you have Monday, Friday, Friday, right? So these are the days on which it can potentially occur. The. Rates, Monday, Friday, none. It cannot occur on this day, right? And then you do a back test, okay? And you can check what your new column gives you. Now, apart from all the columns you created, you now have a signal, position and strategy returns right signal position strategy returns, at least for the last 15 days, says that we didn't take any positions, right? Okay. Now the next thing you want to do is, you want to check your back testing results. So what you will do is, everything is already computed. Okay? At this stage, you have a column called strategy returns, and you also have CC returns. So if you have both of them, all you need to do is apply a come someone, right? So come some will give you everything you need. So that's what we do in show back testing results. It displays a cumulative return from the trading strategy and a buy and hold it also plots to see how it moved over time, right for the entire 15 years, so you can print this. And here again, notice how we have applied NP, dot round. So this should look familiar to you. And here notice how we are using.com sum. Again, we are using minus one the index to pick the last value, and we want it to have only two decimal places. Same thing for strategy returns. Then you replace your CC returns and strategy returns directly with comes up so that for plotting, it makes your life a bit easier. So you then say, you plot all this stuff, and here we are saying secondary y position. It means you will have 2y axis, one will be on the left and one would be on the right. So the right side is to show position and the left side is visual return. Okay, so you let's see what happens when you say show back testing results. It shows that in that entire period, buy and hold gave you 96% and strategy gave you 98% so we are talking about 15 years now. Alright, understand that we are not talking about few days or few months. We are talking about applying the strategy from 2005 to 2020 right? So

Unknown Speaker  2:12:27  
Ah, wait a second, this looks off. Okay, now it's fine.

Speaker 1  2:12:42  
Wait I think we'll have to rerun it, because it's got recomputing it's been recomputing stuff. So let's do it one by one, otherwise this gets a bit messed up. So let's start with this. We have what we need. We create a copy of DF, compute.

Speaker 1  2:13:12  
So we do, compute indicators. We do, where did it go? Yeah, here we are, compute, compute back, test tail, then we have show back testing results. Okay, okay, so we are back, sorry, so it is 96 and 90% so it shows you from 2520 right, but this is a very ugly graph. Why? Because this green plot, right? It really messes things up. I mean, there's so many positions that got took in that period that you're better off seeing this without the green plot, right? So if you just do a direct plot, you can nicely see what's been going on in that period. So what you'll notice is, in that entire period, strategy is by the orange line. So you started off in 2005 and really this strategy starts doing very well from 2008 it's around the credit crisis, and it starts significantly outperforming the buy and hold for many years, till even 2016 or probably even 2018 but really, in the last two years, this strategy did not do particularly well. So it's kind of flattened, whereas the buy and hold is giving you video games, right? But nevertheless, this is like an interesting strategy to tell you what how you can create a strategy and how it works over periods of time and so on, right? Okay, so now I'm going to take a quick look at questions, and then we'll take another short break. So let me look at questions. I.

Speaker 1  2:15:05  
So point it's not point Nine 8% it is 98% okay, so Shreyas is asking, is it point Nine 8% No, it is 98% in 15 years, and whatever the other number was 88 or something, what was the other number 96% so these numbers are given as they are not given as percentages, okay, so Jesse says, When comparing strategy returns to buy and hold, this wouldn't apply for extra So firstly, this is a very simplistic way to compare strategy, okay, simplest way to compare strategies, to compare it to passive investments. Passive means you just buy and you go and do your thing, which is, you know, do your job, or go on a holiday, or, you know, Sunday, or whatever it's. There are many better ways to compare a strategy and see if it's giving you good returns. Okay, so that that is as far as evaluating a strategy like performing. I mean, how do you evaluate a performance strategy is a subject unto itself. We haven't delved deep, deep enough into that for today. Okay. Okay, so, yeah, I think now is a good time for us to take a short break. So let me do one thing. Let me check what the time is. Okay, so it's 629, let's come back at about 1839, okay, so we will, I think we'll be together till about 7:10pm, or so today, it was going to take a slightly longer than expected. So yeah, I'll try to wind up so before that, but just letting you guys know, so see you guys in about 10 minutes. Bye.

Speaker 1  2:20:34  
And content is part smaller tasks like functions to increase readability and make things easy. Our person, I empathize. Spending some is finding it difficult.

Speaker 1  2:20:56  
All right, guys, let's continue. Let me see there are any questions. Okay, so Madhu Sudan says he's finding it difficult to understand. I can understand Madhu Sudan this. This is where the lectures generally start getting a bit intense. This is the first of those lectures. I would say that anybody who's new to programming and who's new to algo trading, you should be spending some time reviewing stuff that's covered in the class, because the nature of the content is going to be challenging. I think any of us who signed up for the ePAT, we always knew that it is a extremely enjoyable and interesting field, but it's also a field that needs you to put in the hours, right? So I empathize with your you know you and many others who find it a little hard, but I just want to tell you that if you hang in there and you review the material, at some stage, those things are going to start clicking in your mind. I can't tell you when it will happen, but I can surely tell you that if you are persistent and review stuff, then in a few days or weeks, things will start gradually falling in place. Okay, all right, let's move along. Uh. So we completed this part. So a few things that I want to mention is that we have followed the functional programming or modular programming approach. Here. That is, we have broken a big task into smaller tasks like functions to increase readability and make things easier right now, any model, any strategy that we build, is only as good as the assumptions that are undergirding it. Okay, so we should be careful about the assumptions we make here. Obviously we have ignored market friction. So we don't consider taxes, we don't consider slippage, transaction costs, brokerage, all those things. And so whatever results you get in back testing of this type is a very optimistic presentation of what would actually happen right now. Another point to mention here is look ahead buyers that I had spoken of earlier. So here we are saying that we will decide on the trade based on Monday's close price. But if you're going to decide on the basis of Monday's close price. How can you purchase at Monday's close price, right? So that itself is a bit of a look at advice right now, since we are just learning the ropes, we can, we can, you know, do this and stay, stay over, right? But in real life, you cannot trade at the close if you depend on the close prices. So one way to work around this is you decided, okay, half an hour before close, you consider that to be the price at which you do your comparisons, and then you will decide whether you're trading or not, right? So that's something to keep in mind. So as we get better with this stuff, and before launching things in live markets, we will start factoring all these things in and make suitable modifications, right? And obviously, the code and approach we follow here is meant specifically for vectorized approach for working with historical data. You cannot directly deploy it in live markets, but I've spoken about it at length in the first session, right? You can read about back testing. Only chance book on algo trading is a beautiful one. You should you should check it out at your leisure, right? Okay, so now let's go to the fourth strategy of the day. I know this is Strategy three, but we did one, a and 1b, and two, so this is technically the fourth. So now I'll be a lot faster, because now we have spent time with three strategies in this class, right? So we know the bare bones of how we approach things. All right, okay, so this is the Moving Average crossover. You guys would have seen this before, in using different tools. So we are using the strategy is known. It's only the tool that is sort of new to us, right? So here we are going to have two SMA filters the shorter look back period. Which we call sma 50, and the longer look back period we call sma 200 and we are going to work with Tata Motors. So this is a publicly traded firm in India, a pretty well known auto firm. So brands like Jaguar and Land Rover also are part of Tata Motors. Right for those of us who are unfamiliar with this form, just this might help you connect the firm with the products that you you've seen over the years. Okay, so with data motors, what you do is you go long when sma 50 exceeds sma 200 and you go short when the polarity reverses. That is, you go short when sma 200 exceeds sma 50, right? So this is as simple as that you go long at this stage and you go short at this stage, right? So in class exercise seven, we are going to use a variable to download the data for 10 years, and yeah, and then we'll proceed ahead. Okay, so we are working with Tata Motors. You specified this start date and end date. You do all the same steps that you've done before, right? And we take a look at what you get. So you have prices in 2015 close prices were around 472, 451, and serve and in May 2025, their prices were around 720, right, close prices. Now what you do is you create variables, M, 50 and 200 for shorter and longer. Look back, you create columns, and this time we'll work with the adjusted close price columns. Okay, so there's something to note. Then you plot SMA, 5200 adjusted close, you create columns. SMA, 50, sma 200 previous day for the moving averages shifted for the previous day. And yeah, that's what you do. So let's run all these cells, and we look at how the curves look. So the blue jagged line that you see is the original curve. Then you have the orange line, which is the SMA 50, and then you have the green line, which is a lot smoother, which is the SMA 200 right? So really, the kind of places you want to trade are where you see these two lines cross. So this one here, here, right, here, here, here, and so on. So now what you do is you create a column called signal. And now, since this is a long, short strategy, it is going to take three different values, so you will have zero, plus one and minus one. So zero is for no trades. Plus one is for going long and minus one is for going short, right? You can use NP, dot where, and yeah, and then we'll see how things go, right? So that is what we are doing here. So the first thing you want to do is you want to create a column called signal where, if sma 50 is greater than sma 200 and sma 50 previous day is less than sma 200 so you are looking at the point where the two lines cross, not just where the SMA 50 is greater than sma 200 right? So you check that, and you will mark that as one, for signal, right? So that's what we are doing here, where both these conditions have to get met. Then it is one, else it is zero. Then you are checking for the reverse polarity. So you just reverse the direction of the inequality, and you say, if sma 50 is less than sma 200 and sma 50, previous day is greater than SMA. So it's the exact reverse. You want to encode that as minus one. Else let it remain what it was prior, so it had a series of ones and zeros. So if it is, if it was plus one, let it remain plus one. If it was zero, let it remain zero, right? So when you finish running both these lines here, you should end up with a collection of zeros, plus ones and minus ones, right? So that is what we are doing here.

Speaker 1  2:29:41  
Yes. So this percentage time it It allows us to check how long a particular operation took. So this took like just about a millisecond, right? And at this stage, you may also want to check how many signals you got. What is interesting to see is that in the 10 year period that we are observing, you only. Took like 12 trades, right? Most of the time you were sitting out. I mean, not sitting out, but you you were trading only 12 times, right? Essentially, what is happening is you're taking like barely one trade per year on average, right, in 10 years. Now you want to know, at what price would you have entered when you were buying and at what price would you have entered on your shorting right? So in order to do that, what we'll do is we'll say that the buy price, and this time, we are going to use the dot apply operator, okay, so NP, dot where operates in a certain way. Dot apply operates in a different way. So what dot apply does is it operates one row or one column at a time. It does not operate like the way NP, dot where operates, which is matrix operations, right where you set everything you need in one big, huge matrix, and then you perform the operations. Here, what happens is, you operate it one row after the other. Okay, you might have come across again the lambda function, which is an anonymous function. So here, what you're saying is, if sma 50 is greater than sma 200 and sma 50 previous day is less than sma 200 you pick the adjusted close price, right? The axis equal to one tells you that you want to do this every row. You want to run this row wise. Similarly, you do this for the sell price, right? Again, polarity is exactly reverse, and you're putting a negative sign here, saying minus why adjusted close. Because in the case of shorting, we always assume it to be negative, so that when you multiply it with minus one, you end up with a positive value. Okay, so this is just a mathematical, you know, trick that we use. So we run these cells. Also, by the way, for practice, you can run these two lines using np dot where two. Now here I specifically use dot apply to show you something that I want to draw your attention to, which is that, although operationally, what is happening at in this cell and in this cell is very similar, since we use NP, dot pair, and we use the dot apply. You can see the difference in speed, right? So this is almost 100 times slower. So what took like one millisecond has taken like 100 milliseconds, and that is because dot apply works row wise, and it has to go through like 2500 rows, right? Separately, one after the other. So it's not a preferred way for us to work with when we are working with data frames, not that. So there are times when we can't help it. Okay, the operation may be so clunky to do using linear algebra that we are forced to use like a dot apply, but something for us to keep in mind with regard to how it works. All right. So now that you have this, the next step that you do is you combine buy price and sell price into one column called trade price, and you again do the dot replace like we did the previous case, replacing the zeros with the previous non zero price, and do a forward fill. Now, the benefit of this is that you will have a record of the price at which you entered across that entire sheet, right? So that is what we do here, and we can check what the tail looks like. So you can see that the trade price is showing that you know, you had shorted at minus 817, that's what it is. Okay. That's what it tells you. So the same principle of dot replace can be used for position also. So we do the same thing that we have done previously, and you can check out how it looks now. What this plot tells you is your positions across the 10 years. So you were sitting on cash because you didn't get a signal for nearly a year, then you got a long signal. So you were going long on Tata Motors for a while, then you shorted it maybe for like, a few days. Then you again went long, then you shorted it and stayed short for like, three plus years. Then you went long, short and so on, right? This is how your trades look. So there were long periods when you did not take any positions. So for buy and hold returns again. So what I'm calling bnh returns is nothing but CC returns from the previous from the previous cases, notice again that I'm using log so that is going to inform how we work. Right? Do? Shift one again, something we have done before. So not that hard to imagine why we can do like a come some plot to give us an idea of as to how it's performing, so you can clearly see that the strategy was doing quite well, right, compared to buy and hold in this period. So again, you can measure and see what happened in those 10 years. So in those 10 years, the buy and hold gave you like 40% 43% returns, whereas the strategy has given you about 110% 115% returns, right? So the strategy clearly performed pretty well for you, right? So now I'm going to take a look at some questions. Let me see any

Speaker 1  2:36:04  
Ah. So Jesse asked, I presume, when calculating signals, because they are one and minus one, you will still have a positions column, so can get your strategy returns. Yes, that's what we did, right? We just created a column called, I think we called it, what? Positions, yes. So we created a positions Yes, I think your instincts were right. Jesse, we did exactly that. So far as Alger asks, Can you provide more structured study tips? I'll come to that towards the end. Faris, okay. Nicola asks why x is equal to one, if it's row wise, columns are access equal to one. So see access equal to one means the operation happens along the row. Okay. Access equal to zero means the columns happen along the column. Okay, so this is slightly confusing, but at least when I started using access equal to one and zero with pandas, I was never quite sure, what does what? But, yeah, you got to use it a bunch of times. What I suggest is create like a toy data set. Okay? Create like, let's say, columns A, B, C and D, and create like, 10 dates from, say, first of Feb to 10th of Feb, and compute the average, okay, the so create some synthetic data in that column. So you have, say, four columns and 10 rows, so you have 40 numbers. Create some use. Use one of these number generators, like NP, dot, Rand random or something and fill them with numbers. Calculate means using different x is equal to one and x is equal to zero. See what happens Are you computing the mean for each column, or are you computing the mean for each row? And you will figure it out. Okay, something for you to try out, if you want to know it. How to avoid doing Average crossover during so entry, during again, Shreyas, I think that is a slightly off topic, so I'm not going to answer that. If you want to write no more, please write into us. We'll help you out.

Speaker 1  2:38:15  
So Carlos says, Why does the equity line look like we were in a position, even though, for three years without being without a position. That's not quite true. Carlos, if you notice, you can see the orange line is just showing a flat line for really long, after which you have constantly stayed invested in this strategy, either you are at plus one or at minus one, even at even. By the end of the strategy, in this period, you are short on that asset. Okay. Okay. So now let me come to Paris question. Who says something about structure study? So with regard to study again, I don't know you and your specific background, Faris, but I'm just going to give some general tips. So for those of us who are new to programming, okay? It is the first few weeks that you spend with a programming language are very crucial, because progress will appear to be slow and sometimes frustrating, but there will come a point in time when things start to click, okay, but what you need to do is you need to keep trying stuff that we teach you, and keep reviewing material. So the focus ought to be understanding data structures, like data frames, getting comfortable with things like pandas, getting comfortable with operations like using dot percentage change log returns. Once you do this a bunch of times, right? Like computing a positions, vector, positions column, computing a signals column, applying shift, sometimes shifting things, you know, multiple times. Sometimes we do shift one, shift two. So when you do these kind of things, you start getting comfortable with the mechanics of what goes on in the. Uh, computations considering a strategy. Okay, this is still not creating strategies. I'm just talking about dealing with the calculations. But that is really important. It needs to the way the calculations happen. Need to become nearly second nature to you, so that it frees up your cognitive load on your mind when you start working with strategies. I often think of this as you know, when we were in school, high school and stuff, when we were just learning to multiply and divide numbers at the beginning, multiplication can seem like incredibly hard, especially when you're multiplying two digit numbers with two digit numbers and stuff, or three digit with two digit and stuff. But you just had to put in the hard yards to know how to do it, or divide numbers, for that matter. And later, at some stage, when you really needed to, you know, go to a store and pick up eight pens, 12 books, you know, five kilos of rice and, like, half a dozen eggs, right? That is when you're really applying all that multiplication and subtraction and addition and stuff like that, right? So when you are computing what your grocery bill is going to be, multiplication is by then become second nature to you. So it doesn't matter whether you're in a grocery store or in a computer store. Now you can just apply those same principles. So I would say in with regard to programming, also, that's what happens. You need to get you need to go over a program like line by line, use something like a chat GPT or a Gemini on the side, because these days, these tools exist. The reason I'm asking, or, you know, nudging you guys to start using them if you aren't already, is because this is the way people are using them these days, right? So that is one of the reasons I said that. So the structured way to do it is go through stuff, go over things, line by line. If you're unclear about something, just go and paste it in a in one of the language model tools. See what comes up there. Do get used to spending time with the program yourself. Do not outsource everything to a chat GPT. I am very clear about this, that if you start outsourcing things to chat GPT too early in your programming journey, I think you run the risk that you will not acquire a base level knowledge of Python or pandas to be able to use these kind of really powerful tools. Well, okay, Shreya says how to know when and which function to apply. It just comes with time and practice shares. There's just that's all there is to it again. It's, it's, you know, I can just keep giving you analogies. It is just the way we work with languages also, right? We all speak English here, and there are so many words to describe a certain thing, happy, sad, upset, surprised, thrilled, etc. How do you know when and which to apply? Just first thing is, you need to know what the words mean. Then you will figure out, okay, you know, in this situation, the word happy is more applicable. In this situation, the more word anxious is applicable, you will just learn it. But the base level awareness of those words, the existence of the words and the meanings of those words, needs to be there happy says, I found excel more comfortable while creating signals and calculating rooms. Is it okay to stick to it for preliminary? Yeah, you can do that. You can stick to Excel for a while, but you should gradually start moving to Python. Happy. Don't, don't just stick to excel, because eventually you need to start getting comfortable with with code. Okay? Ultimately, if you want to be in algo trading in this field, you there's no escaping programs. Okay? All right. So now let's move ahead. So we spoke about returns, and now comes the last strategy for the day, which is more like a homework, but I want to talk a little bit about it. It is called the MACD, which is the moving average convergence divergence, right? Please go and click on this link if you want to read more about it. What it is is you create all these indicators. So you create something called MACD, which is the 26 day EMA of close, minus 12 day EMA of close. Then you call create something called signal, which is the nine day EMA of the MACD, right? So MACD itself is a derived value which consists of two derived values, which is the EMA of 26 days and Ema of 12 days, right? So everything, then, depends on these two what, what is defined as MACD and signal. So when MACD crosses above, you go long. When it crosses below, you go short. So the code is entirely here. You can try it out. We are just doing it for fun with Spotify, the music and audio streaming platform. You can see how it looks. And we don't really have the time for this, so I'm only going to talk about it. So there's this really nice package called quant stats. Let's see. I hope you can see my screen. I'm not going to run the. Board. But I'm going to show you what quant status does. So what quant stats does is it gives you performance metrics for a strategy, right? It performs portfolio profiling, allowing quants and managers to understand performance better by providing them with analytics and risk metrics. So what you'll typically expect when you run us quant status is, suppose you have a column called returns, where you have your strategy returns. You can just directly do this, Qs, dot plots, dot snapshot or some such not exactly this line. It's the line that I've given here. Dots, reports, dot basic this is what you can run. It will give you details like this, what are the returns? What is the drawdown, daily returns? So this is the one I was talking about. Dot basics, right? It gives you what is called a Tear Sheet. So it gives you things like, what are the risk free rate, CAGR, cumulative return, sharp ratio, Sortino, drawdown, drawdown, duration, etc, right? So it's just beautiful set of lots of different metrics for you to examine your strategy, you know, up and down, and turn it inwards and outwards and inside out and whatnot, right? So it gives you all those details. At some stage you can take a look at it. Okay, so I've given some details about quant stats here, I think anyways, we exceeded our time. So a quick recap of all the things we did from the start. We spent, spent some time looking at a slide deck, then we looked at those three or four concepts which we covered here, right? Simple returns versus log returns, come some come prod vectorized, event driven, and the shift operator. And then we essentially applied one, two and four throughout this notebook, right? So we looked at one A, which is simple, moving average on five minute data. Then we looked at EMA on five minute data. We looked at big moves on Monday, we looked at the Moving Average crossover, and I introduced you to mA CD, right? So that is what we covered. I think that's it for this evening. I have covered all the things I wanted to cover. My apologies again that we went a little ahead. Let me see there any questions? So happy, says, sitting in this lecture and seeing the code to be overwhelmed. There was a session where we could code live. So happy, I would suggest you attend the tutorials. Okay, we have these optional tutorials during the week. Those will really help you. Because look, the thing is, as I've mentioned before, right? This is a this is an enjoyable and extremely fun field, but it's also a very challenging field, okay?

Speaker 1  2:47:49  
And the only way you will start getting comfortable is by just spending hours doing stuff. Alright? So do not feel, I mean, I really, my heart goes out to you and anyone who says seems hard and seems tough. All I want to say is, this too shall pass. Okay, I've seen this for many years, for hundreds of students. I know that these weeks can be hard, but all I will tell you is, hang in there. Put in a little bit of time every day. Okay, put in, even if it's just like half an hour every day. Please do that, because that is how your neural networks are going to get fired. And when I say neural networks, I'm not referring to the machine learning ones. I'm referring to the neural networks in your head. Okay, from where the real name comes. Those neurons need to get fired and start getting connected and it will happen, okay? I trust me on this. It is going to happen, but it will happen only if you do this every little day, so that when you go to sleep. The magic that happens is when you go to sleep and your mind starts internally, starting to connect all these, what seem to be like disconnected topics, okay? And that happens when that that, that happens when you spend the time all right? So just do it happy. I know, I know this will happen, but you got to do it right. So JC talks about Tableau. I'm going to skip that question now, sorry, because we've run out of time, but you can obviously write into us if you have more questions. All right, thank you folks. I really enjoyed this. I just really enjoyed the questions today. There were so many of them, and I know we got sidetracked, but it was also enjoyable talking to you. Thank you folks, thanks a lot. I think for folks that want to know a little more about other lectures, please talk to your support managers. Can we make money in algo trading? The short answer is yes. Madhu, Susan, okay, thank you, folks, bye, bye, and have a good evening. Bye.

