Unknown Speaker  0:06  
Hello everyone, and welcome

Speaker 1  0:08  
to our second session about Python for algorithmic trading. We have covered already quite a few very important topics for algorithmic traders in general, meaning that's true and important for retail traders, as well as for like the big fishes in the pond. And given the feedback and the questions yesterday and the feedback after the session, I decided to add a few more slides about the official market hypothesis. I thought maybe it was a little bit too theoretical and here and there, too mathematical, even for one or the other. Therefore, here another slide deck. I can share that here in the chat as well in a second. But you don't this is just for me a little bit as a basis, right? So what I get started with something that was shared like a YouTube video. Of course, you can always go to YouTube video and hope for shortcuts to something right that will make you rich. If that will be the case, if that will be so simple, right? There are so many people out there. They propagate their market like so many different strategies and types, and show their whatever paper gains and whatnot. But unfortunately, right? The majority of people following those YouTube here it's yeah, in relation to this hundreds of years old tale about the Pied Piper and the rats, right? Many people, yeah, follow them, and then they get started trading, then they invest, and then they come into a struggle and lose a lot of money. Now you would say, No, I'm not a person that is prone to something like this. I like the one who is winning. I know who I trust or not, but the numbers speak for themselves, right? So when you have a look here at the numbers, and this is like nice, I think, in the UK, they are required to report the number or the portion of portfolios of accounts that lose money, right? That lose money. And here wonder one of the platforms that we use for technology, illustrations, etc, since many, many years, well more than 10 years. Here you can read that 76.6% of retail CFD accounts lose money, right? So these are, I would say, at least to some extent, those who follow along any kind of YouTube tutorial. And once again, I'm not against YouTube. This is not like I'm just again, against shortcuts, people trying to find shortcuts, yeah, to make the quick buck, right? This is not how it works in retail trading, right? Three out of four. And then when we take the rest, let's say it's a quarter the rest, they are, for sure, like the casino gamblers who have been lucky in the past, right? Meaning that it was not skill or whatnot. So I would say that on a systematic basis, yeah, probably 85 to 90% of people cannot make any money, right? And this probably changes here. So now you might say it's just one platform. No, there is another big one. They say they are here that's in German. It directed me to the German page because I'm sitting here in Germany with my PhD, obviously. And IG markets. They say they are global market leader in CFT trading, etcetera. 71% are losing money with this broker, right? There's not just one broker because they are bad or too expensive, and then there's FX cm. 69 they're currently, if you like, they are leading. But still, 70% there's not even a coin flip. Of the accounts are losing money, and they tried their best, I think, as well, they don't want to lose money, right? Why can it be that they are worse than a coin flip, right? They are worse than just 5050, I mean, if you would say 5050, that's nice, right, half of the population loses, half of the population wins, right? But no, it's like three quarters who are losing money on a systematic basis. These numbers change a tiny little bit. They need to update them, either on a quarterly basis or something, but they are since many, many years, basically the same. And now you might say, yeah, the big ones, they can do it. No, not even the hedge funds can, on average and a long term, kind of like beat equity in these days, right? When you have a look at sort of basic reality here, you can read it right? Shows up when we look at the hedge funds as a crew, right? It's the same thing here, not just individual retail traders, Port hedge fund. Indices provide a reality check and how sophisticated investors perform relative to simple, transparent equity benchmarks. So one of the time series in the data set that I've shared with you, or that we use for our resources, etc, right? Has the spy that's the biggest ETF on the s, p5, 100. It is highly liquid. It has low transaction costs, right? And all the hedge funds together, they cannot beat like a simple equity index over a longer horizon, right? So when you hear, read it over long horizons, 1020, years, brought hfri hedge fund indices, right? There's a hedge fund research group HFR, have generally delivered lower net returns than diversified equity benchmarks. So not even the big ones are basically able to beat the markets in a systematic fashion. Maybe markets are efficient, after all. So in aggregate, this means that highly resourced hedge funds, they have the hundreds of millions of technology and human resources, budget, etc, right? That they struggle to outperform a simple buy and hold equity allocation. Then people come around and say, Yeah, well, there's Renaissance technology, there's Warren Buffett, there's there, yeah, but all the other 1000s and 1000s of hedge funds that have existed and have been wiped out by the markets, right? What is with them? So when you then have a look what they do on a daily basis, right? Day to day, they ingest and clean massive data sets. They engineer features. They recalibrate signals to market regimes, etc, and monitor positions in real time. Sophisticated, highly sophisticated, week to week, month to month, they develop and debug new models, run large back test batches, tune the parameters, they push updated strategy into production while optimizing execution and slippage. So this is, of course, like a big, big operations. They're hedge funds out there, there are 1000s of people working for them, right? So year after year, their revenue performance, they reallocate risk budget, maybe to different strategies, etc. They upgrade the infrastructure. Currently, of course, even those guys want to get the latest and greatest from Nvidia to deploy everything related to llms and other AI models, right? And they add specialist staff, more and more AI engineers, as compared to maybe traditionally educated people, like, let's say MBAs, for example, right? So it's like the equivalent of a professional team, I would say soccer here as a German, right? Professional Soccer Team, training hard five times a week and still only winning two out of 10 games, against a simple equity benchmark here in the in the financial context, right?

Speaker 1  7:46  
You are the trainer of a professional soccer team, right? And you only win two out of 10 games, you probably will lose your job, kind of like, rather quickly, right? Therefore, and this is my major message, because I had the feeling and given and given what I have heard and got in the form of feedback yesterday. I think there is no way around hard work, right? Hard work here is the only sustainable path. You cannot skip math studies and financial theories, yet there is, like a common language in markets that you simply need to internalize before you turn your attention to anything like a quick buck on YouTube. Here that strategy. Here's a piece of code, blah, blah, blah. You need to know this, right? You can, of course, you can copy it, you can use it. But what will happen is, like the pied piper on the first screen, right? You need them to do after studying here. I was saying here discipline, study at night. Some people might have here proper day jobs, right? And you don't have any other, any other choice, actually. And then you need to do your research and really respect testing before you go live and try to implement the systematic execution in the plot in the cloud, properly implemented, architecture, locked, monitored, and everything right. And this might lead to a sustainable lifestyle and mastery, but this, what you see here is for sure. Not the quick buck that you can make by just getting on YouTube or picking up a book with one of picking one of 100 trading rules and then you are good to go. That's for sure. Not the way to go. You need to this is a chart that you have seen or figure right. You need to study finance. They need to know what people are talking about. You need, yeah, simply also the math, right? That is behind all of that. And then, of course, before you get into the algo trading arena, you need to master your Python basics here as well, right? So there is, from my point of view, no way around. It, right? So finance math programming must be understood as reinforcing layers, right? They belong together, the one book which is blurred out in the back my head. Like financial theory with Python, I start the breakfast with, like the four languages, right? I added English right as the least common denominator. Then we have the financial language, then we have the mathematical language, then we have the programming language, and you need to speak fluently, basically all those languages. It doesn't help that much if you know, just like a little bit of math or maybe a little bit of coding, or have heard a little bit of trading, right? This must be mastered here in this context. And they reinforce each other, right? They help each other, and you will understand stuff much better when you study them at the same time, right? And yeah, there are a couple of greetings. And somebody was pointing out that in India, like 90% they are brokers, where 90%

Unknown Speaker  11:04  
are losing money.

Speaker 1  11:05  
Yeah. I was like, going here to the UK, where they have it on their landing page, on the first page, right? And Wayne would say, yeah, in the UK, maybe London, the big financial center in the world. They might be better than the average. I don't know this might be a hypothesis, but no, they are not any better in

Unknown Speaker  11:25  
this regard. So in others, here

Speaker 1  11:30  
they are, like that always confuses me about hedge funds. Yeah, they generally can't beat the S, p5, 100. How do they grow and what draws investors to them? Yeah, that's a good question. They have sales teams, right? When they have hundreds of millions in technology and HR, right? They have also, like hundreds of people working for them. There are placement companies. And this is also a reinforcing cycle, right? You cannot, for example, when you think of the big endowments, let's say Yale or Howard big endowments, many, many, multi, multi, multi, multi, billions, right? They want to earn their money. And they say, Well, we are selecting hedge fund managers, right? And that's my skill, right? They are not saying, Oh, well, I'm buying here one of the 10 most liquid ETFs. Then they wouldn't be paid for that, right? So you always need to consider, what are incentives? Who is getting paid for what right? And people are, of course, drawn to highlight results where they say, well, that's something I want to have as well, like Fear Of Missing Out FOMO. But of course, there are also other reasons why you want to go hedge fund wise. For example, they are usually, and that was like the idea, this is where the name comes from, hedge fund, right? The idea was basically, back in the days that they are not correlated in terms of their performance with the broad market, right? But you cannot justify, yeah, just like your 220 deal, right with being not correlated to the market, right?

Unknown Speaker  13:03  
That's not enough.

Speaker 1  13:09  
Yeah, there's somebody is asking. Somebody is asking here, how, if they can't do it? Why? Why should we be able to do it? Yeah? There are a couple of reasons, right? Once you have such an institution, you are, you need to follow a large number of compliance rules. You need to follow a Yeah, strict rules that are, for example, in your investor brochures, right where you say, well, we will only do this and that we will do reporting. We will do X, Y, that we will hire the brightest people in the world, which they do, then, often with all the cash that they are taking in. My take on this, the short version, without explaining necessarily, why they get it right. Usually hedge funds, they get kind of like a decent performance relative to equity indices. But if you are employing hundreds or sometimes 1000s of people, right this is a costly affair. This was like type of transaction costs. And when the Managing Directors go out with their clients and investors for dinner, they book the expense of their dinners right on the hedge fund. So this diminishes the return when they go out and eat and drink, like, expensive bottle of champagne. There are so many reasons why we can go on this, like,

Unknown Speaker  14:33  
can go on this, like,

Speaker 1  14:35  
for hours on end, but I would say that's my short summary. You need to be as professional as the big hedge funds, right? And you need to rely on something which is cost effective, meaning small operation, meaning trading stuff that has low transaction costs, etc. PP, so you need to mix like the two worlds, right, not having the compliance burden, etc.

Unknown Speaker  14:57  
And then we are going to. Forward with that, right?

Speaker 1  15:06  
Again, that's a good question. I mean, now the questions are like much more than the questions from yesterday, right? And that was my hope, showing that retail traders lose and hedge funds lose against benchmarks as well, right? And there are so many, actually, 1000s of hedge funds that have been founded in the past. People have invested in them, and then they vanish from the market because they they failed in terms of risk management, compliance or whatnot, right? I personally had a hedge fund client in London. I really like the people, but yeah, one event basically wiped them out. So that's like reality investing from an individual point of view. If you're saying, I'm not willing, and this is here, that's the hard work. This is studying at night, doing it all day long. Algorithmic trading is also nothing, where you start the trading bot in the morning, and then when you get back from work, you have another look at it. No, you need to be careful and watching it basically all day long. Or get alerts and be ready to, ready to, yeah, react and intervene, right and yeah, I might, I might

Speaker 2  16:19  
indeed put something like this maybe one day on YouTube, but I don't know if this will get many likes, but because people who will be watching such a video, they're usually watching all the others that I'm talking about, right? So, but it's a nice it's a nice idea, actually. So I'm now clicking through here. I think I've answered them now?

Speaker 1  16:44  
Yeah, Warren Buffett Sure. I mean, he won the bet because his main argument was, they are too costly, right? They don't know how to overcome the curse of their big operations, right? That's a big, big deal. They have, like, hundreds, if not 1000s, of people. They need to get paid. They need to invest millions and millions, if not hundreds of millions, in their technology. That's simply, yeah, a cost burden that you first need to earn back, right? It's like, it's like, when you say ETFs are like, riding the bus and paying once a little fee, right? And you can say, well, instead of riding the bus for like, this one trip, let's say, here in Germany, where I live, to Hamburg. These are like, 700 kilometers. I buy a car just for one trip, right? This will never pay off. And that's like the problem here with with the costs involved, the overhead, right? And the confusion is justified. This is really like one of the paradoxes that we have. And greetings back here for all the people that have been extending their

Speaker 2  17:52  
readings, yeah, and the Pied Piper of other traders. And let me share this is not password protected. I type the answer. I think everybody can read it. This is here, the link to

Speaker 2  18:11  
the thing. Hello, so and I did it. So, where do we have the chat? I post also in the chat, the link to the new slide deck.

Speaker 1  18:21  
So please, please, please, think of it. I don't want to prevent you from doing anything. I just want to prevent you from falling into the typical traps when you are following maybe here the, for example, the YouTube people or picking up a book, or maybe even a colleague who is well meaning, right? I'm not saying that these people, they they do not want your best, right? Maybe they even want to, but

Speaker 2  18:49  
most of them, they have no means in order to get you to achieve your

Speaker 1  18:55  
best, right? So now we are here, back in our world, right? And, yeah, we achieved the point where we introduced this is like here in the middle, if you like object oriented programming for quant finance,

Unknown Speaker  19:16  
right? So

Speaker 1  19:19  
maybe let's to have, like, a seamless bridge here. Recall, we can encapsulate simple things, like a position, like a trade, like whatever might show up. We can usually manage more easily. We can reuse stuff. Right when I think back the first book published, I think, the first book published back in the days when there were no Python for finance books, right? Not even mine was out. Was called Python for financial modeling, and this was all about building large scale systems based on object oriented programming. So before all the data science hype and NumPy pandas. Pipe came around the corner. People were thinking of how to use Python to build large scale pricing libraries, for example, right? That's, yeah, the origin and what made Python so attractive compared to other scripting languages in this in this regard, right? So, clarity, right, separation. And here, getting ready for, like, the big stuff you recall, we have, like, this very simple structure here, a financial instrument, and then a position, right, where we have the instrument itself as an instance of that class here, right? So this is how it, then, in the end, builds together. So the biggest thing I have developed in my life is dx analytics, a full fledged Monte Carlo simulation based pricing library. All right? I just recently started migrating it to the new world. There are, of course, a number of things that can, over time, be added and improved. I always kept up with the code, but so, I mean, I updated the code, right? But there comes a point where you would say, Well, this is now time for a second edition, and not just an update. Therefore, I'm currently working on it, but I have been busy. So towards the end of the year, I hope I will have an updated version for fatigues analytics, just saying that this was my biggest architecture that I personally ever implemented. We have been working for clients on big stuff, but here, that's like our old project, right? So then you can, like, separate stuff into different packages. It's not really package, but can think of it like bags, right? Where you put, oh, this belongs in that bag. This belongs in that bag, right? This is for that so that you have separate classes. They nevertheless know how to communicate with each other, and they in the end, yeah, hopefully, like, think of a Swiss watch or a nice race car, where everything works together to achieve high

Unknown Speaker  22:05  
performance, right?

Speaker 1  22:08  
Yeah, this is not really like a data model, right? You see here that is, I'm not talking about data, right? This is about one class that does a couple of tricks. That's another class that does several tricks. This is a class, and that's a class, right? This is like a model and an architecture, but it's not like a data model in and of itself, for example, that you might be used to from a SQLite database or whatnot, where you have your proper entity relationship model or whatnot. This is just an architectural simplified overview here as an illustration, right? So from functions to back test class. So this is what we have been doing, right? We have had the Jupyter notebook where there was, like, step by step, a couple of lines of code, and there came a function, then there came another couple of lines of code, and so forth, right? And this is a typical process, right? When you think in terms of one step after the other, you would say, Yeah, I first dabble around with, like the data, then I implemented that, I put, like, my lines of code in a function, then I have a notebook which runs from start to finish. And then you say, Well, this is now something, and there have been questions yesterday with regard to, yeah, is this now a blueprint? Can I plug in other strategies, etc? Yeah, this is on the way, right. But the first step is we have a specific strategy, and then we migrate it, we refactor it, with regard to the very approach, right? Meaning here object oriented programming, instead of something procedural, right? And the code you might recall is to be found here in the GitHub repository.

Unknown Speaker  23:52  
So and

Speaker 1  23:54  
yeah, we can then move on and add in that class things like generator signal and on a market event, do, x, y, that, and so forth and so forth. But this is for the next topic here for event based, right?

Speaker 2  24:19  
Yeah, so I answered the data model question. I don't know if the team can help out with the links once again,

Speaker 1  24:28  
yeah, I would say diligent retail algo traders, not the most hope, but they can cover niches that are not appropriate or attractive enough for for the big institutional players, right? If you are a big hedge fund and you are managing 50 billion US dollar, you wouldn't implement a trade which has only a capacity of 500,000 or of 100,000 right, but as a RE. Tail trader, you can decide for yourself. Yeah, this is like a tiny inefficiency. I want to exploit it. So this is something you should watch out for.

Speaker 2  25:11  
And there is a question about, about the lack I don't know what what is with regard to lagging, lagged returns.

Speaker 1  25:22  
OLS, yeah, exactly. They're basically, once you have the structure set up like with the lagged returns and a label right in in ordinarily stress regression, somebody pointed out that I wasn't talking about an ML model or an ordinarily stress regression model. That's kind of like, not a helpful differentiation, because ordinarily stress regression is a linear model. Then you can also subsume under machine learning, right? Their language typically changes a little bit. When you are in financial econometrics, you will typically say you are dealing with, and this is general speak for OLS, you would say we have independent variables, like factors and we have dependent variables. Right? In machine learning, you will change the language generally to we have features and we have labels, but in the end, that's the very same, right? If you use NumPy, let's say you would say independent, independent variables. If you use scikit learn, you would speak of features and labels, right? But this is simply a naming convention, right? And it was also pointed out that I didn't differentiate in in sample out of sample. That's true, but this is pointed out in the code. This is pointed out in the article and also here, because we are primarily focusing on the mechanics, right, on the coding side of things that we are doing here against like our important framework that we should never, ever forget, no matter what we do there, right? So you can replace here the ordinarily Express regression with that setup, also by a machine learning approach. I used to do this in the past, here in the lectures, but I was told that at this point where I give the lectures, there was not that much of machine learning exposure yet. So we changed it to ordinary stress repression, right? So once again, asking the

Speaker 2  27:20  
support, I don't know today, I haven't seen or heard anything from the support here is, here is the link and

Speaker 2  27:41  
and we are good to go, right?

Unknown Speaker  27:43  
So and here as well.

Speaker 1  27:51  
So now, event based back testing yesterday, I said that's a wonderful question with regards to the second session as a bridge right? One of the last questions that I didn't answer, where I said this is something for today, for the second session, is, why do we go with event based back testing after all? Right? Well, because we have seen vectorized back testing, and I have argued that way, as fast as efficient, as nice, right? It can do a bunch of tricks, right? When we put it, for example, into Object Oriented Programming context, yeah, it can do a lot. We can reuse it, and it's scalable, right? We can run it multiple times, and this pretty fast. So, right? So we Yeah, have here a couple of reasons. So one, strategies need to capture, and now we are getting closer to the markets. All that we do is like from theory over ideas, vectorized back, testing, right, putting this into oop. Now getting even closer to the markets. Now we can consider orders, builds, portfolio level constraints, multiple assets, etc, etc, right? So this all requires event driven systems, also getting one step back, also if we have a strategy that is more involved, and, for example, path dependent, or whatever, right. What we are covering here in terms of strategies, right, is straightforward, and this is intentionally So, right. So depending on the type of strategy or how exactly you want to mimic the markets, and when you speak to the professionals, people responsible on a bit of a higher level in the hedge funds, they will always say, Yeah, our back testing engine and our market execution, our deployment engine, they are basically the same, right? They are basically the same. Somebody is asking for the password. I don't know if it's the same person as before, with the person before. I have, I have added, I have added the password

Speaker 2  30:03  
when I was sharing the link. So please

Unknown Speaker  30:07  
reach out to your

Speaker 1  30:10  
systems at ePAT. I don't know if none is here today. I'm not sure. Bit surprised by that. Usually they react so fast and are so helpful with all of that, right?

Unknown Speaker  30:23  
So, yeah, this was answered. Thank you.

Speaker 1  30:31  
Also when you help each other. Wonderful. So now to the single points here, vectorize back test, treat each bar independently and struggle with order queues, partial fills and latency, right? Event based engines model streams of events, right? We might get a new data point, a new signal might be generated, orders might be placed, fields might be reported back, et cetera, right? There are so many different events in the past, when I was teaching it, I focused exclusively on the market data side, for simplicity here. Now, since we have, like I would say, a different setup where we can be a bit more detailed and specific, we can add to market data. We can add signals, orders and fills, right and we can update the you can update the state one event at a time, right? So that's also important here, right? So the same design now mirrors the architecture of many life trading systems, exactly what I was saying before. Here repeated, right? Reducing friction when moving from research to deployment.

Unknown Speaker  31:39  
Many, yeah, say

Speaker 1  31:43  
this explicitly, that they want to have the back test and the live trading running in the very same way, and that the core, for example, the strategy that is back tested and the strategy that is run in the markets is exactly the same code. It's not only something similar, right? It's exactly the one thing, the one thing is back tested, and the one thing is used for life training, right? So components become reusable here, right? So strategies and portfolios can be connected to different data sources, execution layers, right? We gain a lot of flexibility, right? That's like, I don't know how old you are, and what this might have been in the past in your region, for example, I was growing up there with the legal bricks, everybody knows that. And we had the Playmobil, as they were called, puppets like to play around like the play will be once they were simply like, one and fixed. There was basically nothing you could do but moving a couple of parts or replacing but later breaks were like, specifically designed to do whatever you want in whatever fashion, right by putting together the bricks the blocks in a certain way. And you can think of this here a little bit like the Lego bricks, the Lego blocks, right, that you can put together in an appropriate way. Of course, you want to have something that makes sense in the end. But this is, yeah, an overarching goal that we should always keep,

Speaker 3  33:21  
of course, with us, so the core components.

Speaker 1  33:25  
So when we speak now of such a system, what are we talking about? And once again, I have here redesigned this, given what we have done in the past. I think when I do some live coding and teaching, and this is more like a how shall I say a sequential approach, where I go a little bit back and forth, some things are easier to convey in one way, and here, where we have a bit of the luxury of having a high level point of view and then having a look at the code, we can go a bit more realistic and deeper, right? So these are here components, like our Lego bricks, that we can put together. We need something that handles data right? So data handler streams market data as your market events, right? So we have seen before that we have different events. So here we have market events. Think of it as a new price showing up right. Then the strategy consumes market events and emits signal events when trading conditions are met. So we we have something that digests the market data, new data, new data, new data, right, and then it emits a signal or not simply says, Yo, there is no other signal, right? I'm we are long. So we stay long, for example. So when trading conditions here are met, of course, and when trading conditions are met, this is here, what I was pointing out before, with vectorized back testing, we are. Are kind of flexible, but still quite limited with regard to what trading conditions are. So what the strategy is all about here, in the event based back testing part, we are really flexible. We can write, instead of some a couple of lines of vectorized code, we can, if we fancy, like, write 250 lines of sophisticated conditional code, right, which does x, y, that which tests A, B, C, and then, in the end, spits out

Unknown Speaker  35:30  
the signal or not. So

Speaker 1  35:39  
this is here the point when trading condition vectorized back testing approach, right? Then the portfolio right? Once we get started trading and we have placed our first trade, there is probably something like a position in a portfolio, right? And the portfolio is created, updated, changed by something like order events, right? So we place buy order, we place sell order, right? Or we want to reduce and maybe replace also other orders, like stop loss orders or take profit orders, for example, right? And what is happening here, obviously, is that the positions are updated. Usually we will deal here with a single position right, and

Unknown Speaker  36:26  
the cash on some fill event

Unknown Speaker  36:29  
as well, right.

Speaker 1  36:31  
We might place, for example, a limit order right, which might not be filled right. Therefore there might no be no update for any position, right? So this is in the context of the portfolio, right? And somebody was asking this before, where do we have it here, right? Data handler, strategy, portfolio execution. That's basically the sketch, the overview, right? We ingest prices, we generate signals the portfolio places orders. Once they're executed, we get updates. These are the fields, and then we can follow along update the

Speaker 2  37:25  
losses with what we with what we

Speaker 4  37:29  
do here, right? So that's the overview to what is written out on the

Speaker 2  37:35  
other slide there. So this was here, exactly.

Speaker 4  37:41  
So execution, so a central event queue orchestrates the flow, so events are appended by one component and consumed by others

Speaker 1  37:52  
with what we have been doing in the past. So I'm, you see, I'm still like, when once you have done something like this for 10 years roughly, right? You, of course, are, like, a little bit stuck in the past. I'm old enough to be allowed to say that, right, when you have just, like, market data events, that's kind of like straightforward. I mean, it's clear, right? If you just have, like, one thing which goes through but here we are a bit more sophisticated, right? Therefore, events are appended here by one component and consumed by others. And we have now, instead of just like a market event that might be happening, some other events, like a field event, for example, which was neglected with regard to the previous approach, so in the didactic example, so particular emphasis here on didactic for teaching purposes, right? All of this runs on a single in sample history, right? Realistic engines must also support rolling or out of sample evaluation windows, where, I would say, if you have ever the chance to do a rolling back test, that's quite a bit better, generally speaking, than just the out of sample evaluation window, where you say, well, 80% is like training and 20%

Speaker 3  39:14  
is like testing. Yeah, that's that has a

Speaker 2  39:18  
number of reasons that can be discussed and maybe a separate session. So now the event loop, right? Somebody I don't know, I see here on my end, I cannot spot anything with regards to audio. It shows that my audio is working as before. I haven't changed anything. Maybe submission is also transmission, right? I'm not sure. Maybe you can provide feedback when audio is.

Unknown Speaker  40:00  
Is good again,

Speaker 2  40:03  
because there have been more than one. So I need to speak more slowly. No, sometimes I mean, that's like, that's like, Zoom was the same with GoToWebinar and the others. If this is like broadcast around the world, there are so many things going on on the web, right, that we nor assume is under control. Therefore, yeah, this might happen, but on my end, it shows at least that there are no issues.

Unknown Speaker  40:35  
So the

Speaker 4  40:36  
skeleton of the event loop that we see here, right? So it's a minimal engine in that's provided here in the

Unknown Speaker  40:46  
repo as well, right? So when I go here, or is it the event back minimal,

Unknown Speaker  40:57  
right? Here you see this as

Speaker 2  40:59  
before, much more verbose, documented right where you see here the data class right for an event, we have the market event here. This is the specific one, right? You see this market event, of course, is like a specification of event, right, and signal event. Once again, order event. And here, this is about the code which is retrieved here from the server right,

Unknown Speaker  41:34  
and we have a fill event

Unknown Speaker  41:36  
from before,

Unknown Speaker  41:38  
so the CSV

Speaker 1  41:39  
data handler. Now you see here the code, and once again, this is just like a one snippet, like the core element of it. This is not like the whole thing for sure, not right? And you see here the CSV data handler streams daily prices from a CSV file, so it says streaming, right? But streaming is simply like reading the data and providing data when it is requested, right? But this logic here, like of streaming or CSV based streaming simulation, however you want to call it, right, this can be, of course, replaced then by the real time data flow that comes in here, right? That's, of course, where we're saying this can be replaced, then for

Speaker 4  42:32  
for life, trading, buy something that is then the market itself. Here we simulate the market, and later on, we want to have the market itself right.

Unknown Speaker  42:48  
Somebody's pointing out

Speaker 2  42:50  
here the blue shift similar. I don't know what blue shift is, to be honest, so I'm usually there's so many things out there, I stopped trying to keep up with it, but this gives me now the chance to

Unknown Speaker  43:08  
so blue ship, blue shift

Speaker 4  43:12  
can be, but I don't know. I would say, if this has a name like this, it probably is web application, and not just like code, but

Speaker 1  43:22  
it is a event based back tester, and there are quite a few Python packages out there that do the trick. And there is a another question, again, related to EMH, with regard to autocorrelation in time series.

Speaker 2  43:42  
Time series, it's, it's even the one from, from quad density, yeah, you see, I'm not using it

Unknown Speaker  43:51  
the Python based platform.

Speaker 4  43:54  
But therefore I cannot argue whether it's the same doing the same trick or not. Here it's code. I would not say this is close to a platform. No, this is like code. This is a event based back testing minimal engine, right? So that's therefore, I would say maybe there are some similar features, but that's for sure, not a platform, right? And autocorrelation in time series. If autocorrelation is persisting, that's a bit off topic, but important question relating to what we have discussed yesterday and the start of today. Yeah, where you find persistent autocorrelation, there is usually, usually something that you can

Unknown Speaker  44:39  
exploit in this regard, right?

Unknown Speaker  44:42  
So more

Speaker 4  44:44  
technical this morning, I started with a non technical discussion. So here the

Speaker 2  44:49  
CSV, maybe I simply increase this here.

Speaker 4  44:53  
So CSV data handler, then we have the simple momentum strategy. So here the it's not based. On the OLS regression right, and you see on market event create a signal event whenever a new bar

Unknown Speaker  45:06  
arrives. Right?

Unknown Speaker  45:19  
Very, very simple. We

Unknown Speaker  45:20  
could also go and maybe do this as

Speaker 4  45:26  
a as a five lakh procedure, or mean, rolling window, or 10 lakhs, or whatever. Here it's, yeah, the most simple for illustration purposes that we can have. And this is now with regard to the question that was asked before, this is really like, based on autocorrelation, right? The idea here of a momentum strategy, and this is what is called time series, momentum is that if the market has gone up, we assume that the market goes further up, right? So the signal here, you see the return when the return is the return is positive, right? We get the sign here plus one, therefore the signal will be plus one. So we go along the

Unknown Speaker  46:17  
market, right?

Speaker 4  46:20  
Yeah, that's by chance. This is correlated, or here it's connected to the autocorrelation, story momentum, time series momentum and autocorrelation are, in that sense, quite closely related topics. Right that we have here the execution handler, right where we would check whether this is really kind of like executed right order event. Here we have the portfolio which tracks position, cash, equity for single instrument strategy right in the slides and in the text you see like multi instrument, etc. Of course, this can always be made more realistic and multi assets, multi whatever, right? But if we are not able to get it up and running for a single asset, where is the point in getting started with multi assets? So here, once again, put a simple portfolio on the market event, right? We update the equity based on the latest market price. So this is what you would see in your account, right? You go to your broker, you open the account, and then there is intraday market movement, for example, and you see, ah, your equity position has been 507 and now it's 505 and couple of seconds later, it's 515 for example, right? So this is what is happening

Unknown Speaker  47:45  
here, right? So then

Unknown Speaker  47:48  
we have the signal event, which means we are going to trade

Unknown Speaker  47:52  
or not, right?

Unknown Speaker  47:55  
Depends, of course, on the position

Speaker 4  47:58  
here, the target position, right? And here the quantity is here calculated based on the target position and the current position right. So we when we are trading long and short, we want to check what the current position is, and depending on the signal, we do the respective adjustments right?

Unknown Speaker  48:23  
And here is the

Speaker 4  48:24  
Fill event. So if there is no fill for our order, here in our back test, yeah, we can, for example, assume all orders are filled what was basically assumed in the past, for simplicity reasons, right? And then when, once there is a fill, we have here the trade value calculated the quantity that was filled plus the latest price. And here the position is updated by the quantity. And of course, we need to, yeah, either pay or, like, buying stocks or whatever, or we get back, when closing out the short position, we get back some cash here, right? And then we have this, what was in short form shown on the slide. That was the reason why I jumped over here to the code, because there is much, much more involved than just like this core engine, but it is the engine, right? This is like, what keeps everything running, and this is about the coordination of data, strategy, portfolio and execution.

Speaker 4  49:36  
So what do we have here? You see the constructor, the special method in it, method, data handler, must be an instance of CSV data handler defined upfront. So one class here is reused in the other class. So to say, strategy, simple momentum, strategy, right, also defined before our portfolio is. Is the simple portfolio just discussed. The execution is the naive execution handler from here. That was the simple portfolio and the naive

Speaker 2  50:11  
execution handler, right? And they are like, edit here as attributes, and then we have a deck queue,

Speaker 4  50:21  
which is like a limited list object, right, like a queue, last in first out,

Unknown Speaker  50:28  
no, last in last out,

Speaker 2  50:35  
Q, right, where we put events at one after the other, and then this is managed. So we have specified up here the basic data, class, event, right then we have market events, signal, event, order, event and fill event. These are our events. And once again, this is what we have here on the overview right, market events, signal friends, order events and our fields. They are here now to be,

Speaker 3  51:10  
to be seen as code, as object oriented code. They are all, of course, like,

Speaker 4  51:18  
I think this is kind of speaking for itself, but maybe it's worth highlighting that an event usually has a timestamp, right? So this is, like one of the major defining features of an event. Usually we have like, two defining features, I would say, in plain English, we would say, well, there is a time of the event, and then there is a description of what has happened at that time. So in the two of them

Unknown Speaker  51:43  
make an event, right?

Speaker 4  51:47  
It's like the event I was born, right? This is like the description, and then there is a day that's my birthday,

Unknown Speaker  51:55  
also the time, right, which specify the event. So I was

Unknown Speaker  52:04  
now a bit too fast. So here's the back test engine.

Speaker 4  52:09  
Yeah, we have read through this. This is now done. We have our events queue. This is where I jumped up to see what events we do have. And now here when this is run, and you see this is just like an infinite for loop or infinite while loop, as long as there are events, it simply, yeah, handles these events. Sometimes there might be more on a certain time interval, sometimes fewer. And now let's see what's happening. So here is pop left. So we get like the one that is in order, the next one that we should take care of. And here we have the event type, market. This is a price update, and we check here whether indeed we are dealing with a market event. Then here we call strategy on market event, past the event plus the queue, then we have here the portfolio on market event. Event, the same as here, right? So when there is a market price, then there might be a signal, and then there might be something in the in the portfolio, right? I mean, if there is a new price there, there's always something in the portfolio where we update, when you when we mark to market, the position in the portfolio. Here's a signal on signal event. So when we say, go long, go short, these are typically the two, or maybe stay neutral as another option. Here is the order event execution on order event,

Unknown Speaker  53:53  
and there is a portfolio on Fill event.

Speaker 4  53:57  
So that's like the engine, which is running, running, running once again until there is no event left. So we might have something that then closes out the last position that might be open right, which would also be another event in this context here right, there are now additional helper functions right to plot the equity over time after the back test, and here the maximum drawdown and the duration, which are calculated here via a loop and down here in the main part, yeah, you see there's quite a bit of stuff going on here. It implements it all right. Event based, momentum back, test, single instrument, etc, right? And that's the final print out here, where we get the

Unknown Speaker  54:53  
basically these statistics,

Speaker 4  54:57  
statistics you find equity, total return. Return, maximum drawdown, etc, so maybe we should

Speaker 2  55:05  
open this here. I have already opened one, but there is also a notebook for the event based backtest, right? So daily momentum. Let me open this in collab now for execution, I'm still blinded by the lights,

Speaker 4  55:33  
by the bright Jupiter or collab version, minimal event based back test for daily momentum rule on a single instrument. So this should be more or less the same as we have seen before, now structured here with some intermediate cells, etc. This is the luxury of a Jupiter notebook where we have also some text for you to read through and get some guidance. So there are the the single classes, right, market, event, signal, event, auto, event, fill event, they are now not defined here. I said this should be. There are always changes happening, right? So here it's not inheriting from another event, right? This is another way of doing it, so to say, right, the core components. This is also called here, data handler and momentum strategy is a bit more compact right in the in the script, it was like all the description and the doc strings. And here it is quite a bit shorter, but with some additional guidance here in the form of some intermediate text for you. So data handler, this should be basically the same. We're not working with anything else here, right? And, yeah, what else do we have? This is a long sell, so when I execute this, this jumps around here we have the momentum strategy. Then simple portfolio, as before, right, still dealing just with one asset, etc, simple, relatively simple stuff. And the naive execution handler here is still shorter, and the event loop here, that's the core, as I was saying, right? This is you defined as a function, and we can run after everything that we have discussed and you have seen here again, in a somewhat adjusted manner we can now here read the data from the data source, either locally or from a remote data source that we have the prices, etc. And when this is run, you see, this is this tiny little piece here. This is running the whole back test. This is relying on everything that we have had before, and this is where we

Speaker 2  58:09  
get the strategy. And let me just check I think this should be exactly. Should should be exactly. You see, I'm not sure, right, but this is, like this chart here. So this is higher resolution. That's the first thing I can see with my classes. But this should be the one 30% plus

Speaker 4  58:33  
level or something here, right? So that's the event based Euro, yes, dollar momentum strategy, right? Minimal event based. And by minimal event based is like the minimal setup, but I think this gives you already a very good overview of what this all entails in practice, the single pieces which might have 1520, lines of Python codes, they might have 200 lines of Python code and more testing and stuff like

Speaker 2  59:03  
that, right? So, but this, at least here,

Speaker 4  59:07  
works and gives us the results, and we can then go here and get our maximum drawdown and everything else here, like the different the different statistics here, let me simply execute it, and then we can see that. So annualized return, annualized volatility, sharp total return, maximum drawdown, throwdown, duration. And we see this for two different options, for the buy and hold option, and for the event based back test here for the momentum strategy, once again, because some people have now asked a few questions with regard to autocorrelation. And what we have covered in the first session. This is the idea of positively autocorrelated

Speaker 2  59:59  
time series. Series where we rely on the current return to set up the position for the next day. Yeah, right. So we see the Analyze return here is like 1% here's like 3.2%

Speaker 4  1:00:17  
annualized volatility. And this is something that you will see there quite often. If you just have long, short strategies and go all in, you have the same volatility than the underlying instrument, right? You You can basically implement whatever strategy you want on a single instrument. With regard to a long short the volatility will always be the same, because the volatility measure doesn't differentiate between positive or negative derivations from the mean value. So in other words, you cannot hope to have lower volatility by a sophisticated, long, short strategy on a single instrument that's here, a given the total return. Of course, it's much, much better. Maximum drawdown is much nicer. And a drawdown duration here, I mean, this is still 970 days. So who would like to live through 970 days? Basically, no one. So I said before

Unknown Speaker  1:01:20  
that, we what I need to check? Because, yeah,

Speaker 2  1:01:24  
when you see the code after a couple of days, sometimes that you have additional ideas. But I will probably, I just wanted to maybe include a different way of coming up with the momentum one here from vectors, that's the engine here. We have the simple portfolio. That's the strategy here.

Speaker 3  1:01:48  
So, so threshold, last price, float,

Unknown Speaker  1:01:57  
last price, event, price. Let me see whether and

Speaker 2  1:02:30  
last prize list, list. What I want to do here? I'm just thinking here, right the direction. This is where the signal is generated. This relies just on one single

Speaker 3  1:02:47  
element here, right? So the just current return. So maybe we can look back in time.

Speaker 2  1:02:55  
I would go here, self, non last price, event, price, self prices

Unknown Speaker  1:03:05  
and Event price.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:09  
So we I want to

Unknown Speaker  1:03:11  
collect all of these. And

Speaker 2  1:03:17  
when I have collected them, I can hear

Unknown Speaker  1:03:31  
go with self.

Speaker 2  1:03:40  
I need to have enough of them. This was not correct. I need to have enough of them.

Unknown Speaker  1:03:49  
If length of self

Speaker 2  1:03:54  
prices, if length of self prices is not crater, one is crater, let's say here

Unknown Speaker  1:04:03  
five, for example.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:07  
Then we would go with the sum. I would set

Speaker 2  1:04:19  
return here to sum off self

Unknown Speaker  1:04:23  
prices Exactly.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:25  
So this is what I want to have,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:34  
prices minus five to the end.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:42  
So this gives us now the

Unknown Speaker  1:04:50  
momentum over five days, right?

Speaker 4  1:04:56  
Instead of just like one day, because you would say, Well, one day. It will change well too

Speaker 2  1:05:02  
often, right? So this was never closed. I was writing the comment too early here.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:12  
That's a plain syntax error. So this seems to accept it. One momentum strategy has no mental strategy has no i

Speaker 2  1:05:44  
Oh, let me simply define it that way.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:54  
But this looks like the very same.

Speaker 2  1:06:06  
Let me check somebody pointed out it should be outside the condition. Let me just check here, momentum strategy and prices up here,

Speaker 2  1:06:30  
last momentum strategy for your Eve run vectors, momentum strategies, but let's slide. Let me just check here.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:51  
Check in here.

Unknown Speaker  1:06:53  
Momentum, strategy,

Speaker 2  1:07:14  
um, this is what to do, definite threshold, load only, rec, two moves larger than this double lock, return, float, why does it not like have to serve prices? Append, if,

Speaker 2  1:07:36  
oh, if last price is none. This was what somebody was pointing out, thanks, thanks, thanks. This was really here on the

Unknown Speaker  1:07:47  
because we won't have typically

Speaker 2  1:07:49  
here none, I think so. I hope so still it doesn't have the, I don't need the one.

Speaker 2  1:08:05  
It goes, but it still doesn't show me. Yeah, maybe I have, I have another look, maybe in a break at this, because this is now, if you have a small code base, changes are simple and straightforward. If you don't have a small code base, right? It's but it doesn't complain about the appending. This is what makes me

Speaker 5  1:08:28  
good, like strut this, yes, one

Unknown Speaker  1:08:37  
last try, then we will

Speaker 2  1:08:46  
smaller the code base. Yeah, we now have the prices, but the results are basically not changing. So here it collects. This is what I wanted to check, right with strut, that's like all of that stuff that was printed out, and the logic, yeah, I might need to, I might need to change there, because The results should change, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:09:11  
So That's like, direction, direction. Here in

Unknown Speaker  1:09:43  
Yeah, there's now it reacts to it. There was direction.

Speaker 4  1:09:47  
So five day momentum is not that good. I don't need the printout anymore.

Speaker 2  1:09:55  
Here and Now that everything is in beginning here. For the first four or whatnot, the checks just like one, and here the direction is set accordingly. Self price is five. Now we can maybe, like, I don't know. Let me define this here, LAX legs, like seven, for example.

Speaker 5  1:10:20  
Lax and

Unknown Speaker  1:10:26  
lax here,

Speaker 2  1:10:30  
and I call this Lex

Unknown Speaker  1:10:33  
as well, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:10:41  
Like so

Speaker 2  1:10:52  
that's the result. Give me one more try. Maybe we just go with three. For example,

Speaker 5  1:10:59  
three lakhs. But this doesn't give us like a wonderful thing here, right?

Speaker 2  1:11:16  
Oh, that's a good point. Surf prices is not like I need to, I need to append the

Unknown Speaker  1:11:23  
Wonder wonderful point I need to append here

Unknown Speaker  1:11:26  
the not the prices, the returns. I need to go here with, yeah, wonderful,

Speaker 2  1:11:36  
wonderful, wonderful, wonderful. The prices need to be change like the rats are NP array of prices. My goodness, what does it do? I don't see my own stuff that I'm typing Here,

Unknown Speaker  1:12:06  
let's array self prices, minus

Speaker 2  1:12:17  
minus Five. Minus five

Unknown Speaker  1:12:26  
over, NP, serve

Speaker 5  1:12:36  
twice. Five.

Speaker 2  1:12:49  
So this is now the from minus five to the end to minus five, minus legs, no, no, minus

Unknown Speaker  1:13:02  
six two.

Unknown Speaker  1:13:12  
That's not five. Let me go here

Unknown Speaker  1:13:16  
the legs and we go to

Unknown Speaker  1:13:22  
legs. My minus one and two minus one, right?

Speaker 2  1:13:31  
So these are now the returns and we can get here. The

Speaker 5  1:13:40  
rats mean exactly. So this is not closed on it open

Speaker 2  1:13:49  
NP array serves prices. This is not needed. This, this, this minus legs, likes minus one, minus one, minus

Unknown Speaker  1:13:58  
one, and the mean of that

Speaker 2  1:14:02  
exactly, wonderful point Here, too much code, unexpected indent. Where do we have

Unknown Speaker  1:14:39  
answer what events are useful to create the parameters

Speaker 1  1:14:44  
you need to specify here in this context, what event, what event you mean, right? Because we are now in a world where we have multiple events, and I mean the base event, if we just stick to prices, right? Okay, and it's difficult. I don't know when you ask about the parameters, what events or how can we decide which parameters to choose for what

Unknown Speaker  1:15:13  
for what events, right? I

Unknown Speaker  1:15:21  
think it's not really specified, right?

Speaker 4  1:15:24  
If this is just related to this year, then we would need to check, for example, 3579,

Unknown Speaker  1:15:31  
whatever, right? And so forth, right? So that's, that's

Speaker 1  1:15:44  
yes, that's the point. But let me before I get back, I want to now I have, like, the ambition to get this up and running, because this is then a much more realistic strategy here a little bit of live coding, what we have done before. So MP array, self likes, this is minus three, or let me go with five. I don't know, for whatever reason, I have an easier time with five, then we have the prices.

Speaker 2  1:16:09  
I can simplify. Let me just simplify that

Unknown Speaker  1:16:13  
code to

Unknown Speaker  1:16:18  
see it better, prices

Unknown Speaker  1:16:22  
and we have PR.

Speaker 2  1:16:25  
PR, we have minus legs to minus five. For example. Over this, of course, it's minus legs minus minus one. There was this one here, simplified code. Maybe this was it, I'm not sure.

Unknown Speaker  1:16:47  
Yeah, and this now works. So with the simplified

Unknown Speaker  1:16:51  
version, I finally found, like the missing, the missing minus sign, right? So now

Unknown Speaker  1:16:59  
we have, instead of just one day like

Unknown Speaker  1:17:03  
this, ar, one, we now have AR, so to say,

Unknown Speaker  1:17:07  
125 right, or 123 or one two, right.

Unknown Speaker  1:17:12  
That's the thing.

Speaker 4  1:17:15  
So thank you for all the support. This is like, you know, sometimes I think it if you are teaching, right, and you are doing this online, and people are following along, like, with AI assistance, right? This used to be for me, like, always the helpful input, right? If they're like, let's say, 50 or 100 people following along, and you're doing something, not everybody might be spotting What goes wrong with the code, but you get helpful feedback from one person, from the other person, and together, that's what I mean. It acts like a little bit of an AI assistant, right? Because you have, like, the the intelligence of the masses, quote, unquote, that helps you out in this regard. So we now have in this little thing here, in the strategy, this major parameter right that I have into introduced here, lags five, right? And we can now go with seven legs, now that the logic is appropriate, hopefully, and you see it somehow it seems that the first thing was like the best one, right? The AR one, as you would call it seems, at least my interactive doing here seems to be that case. Maybe we go just like longer back in time. This now looks similar to what we have seen before. So when you now wonder, yeah, what is he doing with the ground to one or three or five or seven, we have had one shot which exactly applies to what I'm doing here. Namely, the the was early on that one, right? And there have been so many questions with regard to autocorrelation, therefore I jumped on that chip there. Right? If there is no nothing like a persistent, noticeable, significant autocorrelation, then this strategy doesn't make sense, right? But we have seen already with the relatively simple implementation, right, that where we just choose here AR one as an indicator, we have already something exploitable on the statistical side, right? And here I've now changed the code. This was the whole exercise of like going up and down and changing all that code in so that I instead of just one, one single lag, I have chosen now five or seven or nine. Now I can specify what I want to include. In my strategy definition, right? So this is here, like a good chart. So if there will be nothing at all, right, then, yeah, our exercise would be fruitless. Also, statistically, I'm not talking about economic things yet, right? So, yeah, that's here with one. It seemed to work out of the box, and we all agree, right, like that, we would like to have something. Or if we have the choice between two things, like here, between one lag or nine lag, let's say we would rather go with one lag, right, as simple as possible, but not more simple. So if we add more legs, we don't see any benefit at all. Then probably we would dismiss the whole exercise here, right? That's that's a given. And getting back here to the

Speaker 2  1:20:57  
original one, here it is, the legs, right? Here, the

Unknown Speaker  1:21:07  
number of lag

Unknown Speaker  1:21:12  
returns to

Unknown Speaker  1:21:16  
calculate the momentum.

Speaker 5  1:21:20  
That's here.

Speaker 2  1:21:26  
What is meant by these lacks, right? And the

Speaker 4  1:21:29  
original one, right? This was just with regards to the simple one we can now, getting back to our original

Speaker 2  1:21:40  
I can comment all of this out here. This is not this was the wrong one from before. So this shall be now shall be, yeah, that's our original version here that we have.

Speaker 4  1:21:57  
So I leave it as it is. Just wanted to say, well, we can't change that.

Speaker 2  1:22:02  
But, yeah, the larger the code base, the more involved are the changes, right?

Speaker 4  1:22:09  
So that is about the example, and here with the results calculated, this can be as I was showing, also done on the terminal. So get

Unknown Speaker  1:22:23  
clue. I

Speaker 3  1:22:42  
now we have in code here.

Unknown Speaker  1:22:48  
The was it called, we have had a look here at it in code.

Speaker 2  1:22:56  
This was the event, back, minimal, right? So, you went back minimal,

Unknown Speaker  1:23:05  
yeah, I can execute that.

Speaker 1  1:23:15  
So it's now basically doing the same thing as the notebook. Let me see whether everything is as

Speaker 2  1:23:23  
it should be, yeah, within some roundings, right? So here we see the numbers rounded. In part as a printed are like four digits, but in part they are rounded so but they are exactly the same, apart from some Mina rounding issues. Right here we see 0.317 0.315 and yeah, yeah. Annualized return is rounded, but here it should be 9%

Unknown Speaker  1:24:00  
so well, that's the other

Speaker 2  1:24:04  
code, and here what we have inspected

Unknown Speaker  1:24:11  
and inspect, of course, here as well,

Unknown Speaker  1:24:19  
the whole file at your disposal.

Speaker 4  1:24:23  
And when there was a question yesterday with regard, yeah, is this like a blueprint where we can pluck and play different strategies? I would say this might be a good starting point, for example, to replace a momentum strategy with an SMA based strategy. And once you have that you might go to another one. Maybe then you would go to an OLS prediction strategy. But this year, from a momentum thing, which is pretty simple and straightforward. That's the reason why I chose it in this context right to go to a simple

Unknown Speaker  1:24:56  
moving average strategy. That would be a good

Unknown Speaker  1:24:59  
idea. Um, a good learning path.

Speaker 2  1:25:03  
So getting back to our proper slide location here, check oriented programming, data handler classes, our event based backtest.

Unknown Speaker  1:25:14  
This was just the core. This was our jump off point.

Speaker 2  1:25:21  
This was our jump off point. Yeah. I will maybe do another version of I might add another version of the notebook to the GitHub repo, so like version B, or live version or something, right? Yeah, but I won't overwrite the original one. I think there's always good to keep the original stuff

Unknown Speaker  1:25:42  
in place, right? So,

Speaker 4  1:25:45  
yeah, the core event loop having seen in actions with the adjustments, finally having worked so it's absolutely within the framework, what we have implemented, and I repeat it here. It's a frame work. It's also giving you an architecture for thinking, right, the wordings, the ideas, the components that you need to take into account, and all these elements. It's not yet a full fledged kind of back testing suite, or when somebody was asking before about the platform, if this does the same as a platform. So when I think of a platform, yeah, I would imagine something like large scale and powerful and yeah, I don't know much more than what we have here. We have here a skeleton or a framework with the chart here shown that we have seen before when we changed the strategy that we saw here, like the strategy, and maybe one thing I haven't emphasized before is there is one major input parameter I was focusing exclusively on the on the calculation of the signal itself, but there is one condition which is relevant as well. And there is here you see my changes from before, and that's here, the the threshold value. What is a threshold value? Yeah. We don't want to have that the that the strategy changes all the time, right? We want to have some threshold where we say, Yeah, this is something Yeah, considerable and Yeah. Please do something now. So like a threshold, right? Like a high jumper needs to clear the bar, right? So we want to have some minimal jumping hate here for the strategy to become active. So let me

Unknown Speaker  1:28:00  
click on this and,

Unknown Speaker  1:28:03  
yeah, there we have

Speaker 4  1:28:04  
threshold, threshold, right? And there it's kind of like the condition, right? Ignore very small moves to reduce unnecessary turnover, right? So we don't want to shift positions all the time, like the tiny because method, financial, time series, right? They are more or less by definition, they are centered and have the major mass around zero. So we will have many, many more tiny little movements than the interesting large movements. And this is here the threshold, and that, of course, has a an impact. So when I set this, for example, to 0.01, instead of like 1.75 there, we get here, a worse performance. And here absolutely mixed performance when I increase. So this is an important parameter here,

Unknown Speaker  1:29:06  
as we will see

Unknown Speaker  1:29:08  
here, right when I

Unknown Speaker  1:29:10  
increase it, let's say to 2.5 as like going in the other direction,

Speaker 4  1:29:20  
it's also not too good, so, right? This is, I would say, similarly important than the very idea of the strategy, this threshold, right? This is, as you would call in deep learning, or machine learning, is a hyper parameter, right? It's not just like a tiny little technical thing. This really defines what is happening here with the strategy, and in between, we have seen the result have been pretty good, so maybe like 2%

Unknown Speaker  1:29:49  
that's already looks good. Again,

Speaker 4  1:29:52  
not as good, I would say, because we have a really long draw down period. Have a look at this, a drawdown period from 20. 17 to 2022, who wants to live through something like this? We for sure wouldn't say that this is an acceptable strategy, not speaking again of investment device, but the 1.75 they have their importance. And then we can now change the what we change to multiple days for the momentum and the threshold, then different stories, right? So we have, now alone with this simple setup, quite a few combinations that we need to check, right? So here with the threshold, important element, which I skipped over previously, because it was simply set by default and we didn't need to define it. So think that's a wonderful point to have a 15 minute break. So you see it on my clock here. 102, in Germany, and yeah, 15 minutes.

Unknown Speaker  1:31:00  
117, I see you back. You.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:29  
All right, so

Speaker 4  1:46:32  
we are getting closer to the markets, the real markets, which are, yeah, basically characterized by a large number of data points that are streaming in on a consistent basis during trading hours. So when you have a look at the at the

Speaker 1  1:46:51  
cryptocurrency markets, right, they are basically streaming data all day long. And I mean, they are creating data, I should say in the providers, they can help you with retrieving the streamed data that they send out, right so that's here. Now our next important step, and we have discussed this before. If you have the right setup, the right architecture, and you have encapsulated all the elements, then you can, for example, replace, I think it's still open here, the can replace the here it

Unknown Speaker  1:47:32  
was in more detail, right? Went back minimal.

Unknown Speaker  1:47:36  
You can replace

Unknown Speaker  1:47:38  
the CSV data handler. Here we go.

Speaker 1  1:47:41  
That's what it was looking for. That's like simply streaming, if you like, from a CSV data file,

Unknown Speaker  1:47:50  
right? And,

Speaker 4  1:47:53  
yeah, it is not really streaming, because there is nothing generated in real time, reported in real time, transmitted in real time. It's simply the simulation of something like this. Right, in the markets, there is some trade which is filled, and then there is a price at which the trade was filled, and this is like the new market event that is created, right? So we have here like the market event. So here the market events are not really market events. They are historical market events. We simply retrieve them from a database or here from a CSV file, etc. In real algo trading, we would need to retrieve the data from an API, from our broker or data provider, which provides us with several feeds for different prices, different use cases, etc. PP, right? So that's like the deal, and we are now closing in. I want to go a few steps further into this direction of doing real time trading in the market. So maybe for this purpose, I can go to my visualization here, right? This is now the point. You have studied math, you have studied finance, you have studied the coding side. You have done your back testing homework, and your your research day and night. And we are now closing in. This is like from upper right here to the lower left. This is like the connecting point here, right going to the market, maybe starting with paper trading, then with real trading, small amounts, and when everything goes well, scaling the amounts and then bringing it here on the right hand side to a stable running system, hopefully robustly stable running system, right? This is what we would like to have one day. So from the back testing to the streaming So here again, in like written form, moving from our historical. Back test to paper trading or live execution requires feeding strategies with a continuous stream of price updates, rather than static files.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:09  
Again, before this was a simulation.

Speaker 4  1:50:12  
Now we are closing into the real world, so the event based back test architecture naturally extends to streaming data. Market events can be driven by live feeds instead of CSV fights, and if you have the proper abstraction level, right? This is just a matter of plucking one thing out and plucking the other thing in,

Unknown Speaker  1:50:34  
right? So

Speaker 4  1:50:35  
that's the ideal state in practice. I'm aware of the fact and many others will be too, that this is not as simple as here, just like with a few bullet points, right? So paper trading sits in the middle, right? Is what I was saying before. Maybe from back test to real money, yeah, might not be the best way to go. I, in the past, have usually handled it that way. I rather wanted to have real trading, but with very small amounts. So for example, when you trade in FF, FX markets, you can have positions, let's say, with 20 US dollar or 50 US Dollars open. You don't need to go 50,000 for the first time, or, like, have high leverage or whatnot. So paper trading here is like either the replay of historical near real time speed, or you paper trade with the real time account, but not real money. So there are different forms, and you will know, I hope that you what, what you should use to make the best out of every situation and step in the process. So a lightweight messaging layer decouples now the data producers. What I was saying, if your level of abstraction is correct, right, we might have something like a messaging layer which decouples the data producers, data file or databases or whatever, or here the tick server. So using same interfaces in both modes reduces the risk of divergence between research and production code paths what I was saying before as well. So speak to the people responsible in the big hedge funds. Right? They have their strategy code, their core, their holy grail, they have encapsulated. And this is back tested in that form, and it's deployed in that form so that there is no Yeah, surprise due to a migration right in the past. And this was when I started like consulting companies with regard to Python usage, etc. This was often a point, right, because people in the research departments or data science, generally speaking, departments that were using technologies like MATLAB or, let's say, Python or R, right? But deployment happened in, let's say Java, right, or C Plus Plus and alone, the change from one language to the other, we can all imagine there are so many problems that can arise, issues that might sneak in, and so forth, right? Yeah, having the same core for the strategy, this is really what you would like to have. So that's here, the idea that's ideal. We won't get to that point, but a little bit of a structural discussion is helpful in and of itself. So what we are going to use this is also tradition here for lectures zero MQ, that's a lightweight messaging package and yeah, tool utility. It is, for example, used by Jupiter lab in the back end and by so many others, right? And it's simple to set up a server, for example, which has, let's say, 100 or 1000 consumers, so publish and subscription. These are the two modes here. There are more no modes, but we are only concerned with these two, right? And we have here the setup for so this is now preparation for what we will go through a single pop socket. Can broadcast messages so many sub sockets. So this is for publishing and subscription. Here you can read it written out. So that many sub sockets without managing individual connections. So that's the beauty. And for every data provider out there, I think there's like the standard situation, they have data. They want to provide you with the data, but you are not alone. So usually, if you are subscribing to such a data service, there are hundreds or 1000s of others that are subscribing at the same time, and this is here where these, yeah, technology. G's are for so subscribers can filter by topic. Let's say a symbol. You can imagine if you subscribe, I don't know now, making up things, there might be one data provider which provides real time data for s, p5, 100. You won't get this via single connection, but let's assume that will be the case, and you subscribe to it. And then you can define which of the symbols you would like to subscribe to, out of the 500 and the s, p5, 100. Not every single one might be of interest to you. Maybe it's just the technology companies like Nvidia and so forth. Then you would subscribe to single symbols here we can simulate and emulate this here with zero MQ as well. So in our example, so one server publishes synthetic Euro, yes, dollar ticks, and one client prints them and another one stores them in excuse. But Excuse me.

Speaker 4  1:56:19  
Sorry I've used up maybe the the budget of my words, sorry for my issues here. So one is, yeah, just printing out. So these are the use cases. Just to set up. We will have a tick server set up. We will have a tick client which retrieves the data from the tick server, and we will have something where, yeah, stuff is written in a database or whatever, like doing something useful, right in algorithmic trading. Usually our end goal is not, yeah, I'm drinking warm water. It's tea, it's tea, it's cold here in Germany, we have had minus degrees, but I'm feeling I'm feeling good. It's just like a thing with my

Unknown Speaker  1:57:08  
throat and my voice squats.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:11  
Thanks for your for your patience, right?

Speaker 4  1:57:15  
And, yeah, the use case might be digest data, resample the data. Provide the resample data to the strategy core engine, right? Then generating signals and so forth, right? This is like the whole yeah value chain, or the whole process, if you like, but here we cannot Yeah, cover everything within the matter of minutes, right? Which is relevant or would be

Unknown Speaker  1:57:45  
relevant in in practice, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:57:48  
So let me see a question.

Speaker 4  1:57:57  
Yeah, there's somebody asking about back testing on a tick data level. So my counter question would immediately be, why would you want to test something on a tick data level? So why would you want to do this? Usually, I mean, if you're not working for a higher frequency shop or a global macro firm which does everything, why would you want to do something on a tick data level? I don't know, usually this is not like the realm where retail arbitrators, but again, I don't know the background of anybody basically following along. So I'm just it's usually my first question that I react with. And of course, tick data is and Level A, B data, order book data. This is all costly, right? They don't want to provide you with that costly data for free. You can buy it. But this is usually the realm of institutional players that have the millions and millions in budget that they can invest in order to get their hands on such data sets. So I'm Yeah, therefore, of course, it is possible to back test at thick level. It is possible. But my first question would be, why would you want to do it? And the second question, right on their alternatives, or whatever? Right? So? Serum Q, no, that's a package. That's a messaging package, which is not Python specific, has a C core and can be used from Python, right? Yeah, absolutely. I would say, as an individual, you cannot do high frequency trading. I have received in the past so many emails where people say, Yeah, I'm interested in high frequency trade and say, How are you interested? Yeah, I'm a individual trader, and I want to algorithmically trade high frequency that's not possible. Period that's not possible, simply impossible, because you would need to basically invest millions and millions and millions in hardware alone, which you would co locate. It at the exchanges, right? And then, yeah, it might go. So if you are interested in what is entailed in high frequency trading, I think the book is called flesh. Is it called flesh boys, right? This is like about the race with regard to shaving of milliseconds and that field, right? So that's

Unknown Speaker  2:00:25  
that's like here

Speaker 4  2:00:28  
on Amazon, just like in Germany, it popped up Michael Lewis, Flash boy. So if you're really interested in a little bit of background and hardware and messaging and and class fiber, right? Stories and what is entailed. So that's the book that you should pick up or listen to as an audio book. That's a pretty, pretty nice read and interesting. It's not brand new, but it's also not too old. Oh, it was already 2014 but, but still, what is written in there is still pretty, pretty interesting. So, HFT, right? So mid and low frequency, that's basically the

Unknown Speaker  2:01:10  
sweet spot, I would say, right.

Speaker 4  2:01:14  
So messages are small JSON blobs, right? So it's very efficient, very, very fast, right? You can have 50,000 messages sent and retrieved easily. Not a big deal, right? That's that's a given. So in our example, one server publishers, one client prints and another source them in SQLite. This is what I was saying. We have a simple setup just for illustration here

Unknown Speaker  2:01:43  
in this context. So,

Speaker 4  2:01:52  
yeah, somebody, yeah, it's a good point to know. I mean going from end of day prices to, let's say, Open, High, Low, Close. I mean, with regard to one tick, can trigger your strategy. You could get not exactly to what you are after. Now I understand better, right? Because one tick can indeed then trigger something that you don't want to have. But with Open, High, Low, Close, back testing you have if the tick is going up or the tick is going down right, you can then s as proxies, take your highs or your lows from the OHLC bar, for example, to simulate this right, because if A single tick would have triggered a signal, right then the high end or the close would have triggered it as well as one example. But still, it's, of course, really, really costly, etc, to get your hands on the proper data in this context. But I mean these are we are on the right track now considering the real world issues. And the real world is in real time and is based on the single ticks. So here we have a tick server, which we have used over the past years as well. Here for the illustration, right. And that's a pretty simple setup, but it's already a powerful setup. So something like this here is already scalable. It looks like a tiny piece of code, but it is, yeah, scalable in the sense that this tick server on my machine could serve like 1000s of clients at the same time. This is how efficient the technology is. Of course, if I go now with hundreds of hundreds of instruments and tick data level our discussion from before, then we might reach one day one limit, right? But it's really a powerful

Unknown Speaker  2:04:07  
a failure. So,

Unknown Speaker  2:04:20  
yeah, there's

Speaker 4  2:04:21  
other question with regard to data, of course. I mean, these are all good questions, because data, in and of itself, is like the fuel for all our strategies, both back test and trading, right? There are now different, different points, right? So how far back should we want the data for retail players like us, historical data wise, that's a good question. I don't have a real answer to that. Apart from that, I usually say you need to consider So usually people say, the further back in history you go, the better. It is something like this, right? Because. As you have more data and more experience, but then you could argue, which I often do, depending on the situation, that what is potentially the benefit of having 10 year data, which is 10 years old for a strategy that you run today, we all know what has happened over the last 10 years. Why should something some price pattern, or whatever it might be, whatever the use case is, why should something from 10 years ago be relevant for what I observe in the markets today? Right? So that's, I don't know. I mean, you must have some proper data set. I mean, you should rather think of having something, and I cover this in my book, reinforcement learning for finance, right, where you use generative AI to create synthetic time series data, where you increase your data volume, which you can use for back testing, for example. And you create the synthetic data based on the characteristics of the real time series, let's say the s, p5, 100, or the euro, US dollar, right? And in the book, I show with relatively minimal setup that you can create synthetic data, which statistical tests say are from the same distribution as the original time series data or return series data, right? So it's not like something where you would say this is always as you should do it how far back? So of course, FX data is data that is decentralized. There is not a single new york stock exchange where there is the almost all the turnover observed for a certain stock. That's true. So usually I would get started on a retail level with the FX data from the broker you work with, right? We have been working with Wanda in the past, and they, for example, they provide you down to the five second bar level. They provide you data going back in all history. So if I would want to trade on Wanda, right, then I would go with their data first, maybe I would think of enriching it, or checking it, or quality assurance based on other time series data and so forth. But first and foremost, look for the right execution, and with the one that I think they must have reached something like 20 years going back of five second bars, and even with a demo account, you get access to all their back data if they haven't changed anything. So that's one of the best things, and therefore I preferred it in the past for teaching and for our own stuff. Given the data availability, you also get one minute bars, but let's say, if you have five second bars, you can always sample it up to one minute, two minutes, seven minutes, whatever you want, right? So five minute bars are, for sure, not tick level data, but it's already much closer to real time action than just, I don't know, five minute bars or something. And the five second bars from Rwanda, they also open, high, low, close, where you see like, within this five second window or time interval you've had this high and this close. So you get quite a bit of information in this regard.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:33  
So think this,

Unknown Speaker  2:08:36  
this gives a little bit of input, I if not a conclusive answer, right?

Speaker 4  2:08:47  
So my voice seems to keep up and let us go through the code here, and then we can run it also. But I would do so locally instead of, instead of going to colab, because I need multiple instances running, so we have the import of time and daytime. These are just helper functions NumPy to have a little bit of random number generating probabilities and set MQ. That's the

Speaker 2  2:09:20  
That's the basic package that is used here, right? So, set the CTX.

Speaker 4  2:09:27  
I usually call it context. Here is the proper technical thing. Since it's a documentation I'm not live coding it, it might be better to go with the, yeah, the typical standard, right? Then we have the socket communication in the form or the socket setup of a publisher. So here, from here on, it is clear this is something for publishing, right? And we bind it. We need to say on which channel. So to say it is going to publish, we have the local IP address. And then we have the port here, out of tradition, it is four times five. And then we set a price level here, initial level, 1.1 for Euro, yes, dollar. That's the idea that we simulate some Euro, yes. Dollar here, and we generate, or instantiate, I must say, instantiate a random number generator with the seed 42 you know, 42 is the answer to everything. Therefore, also in the in the IT community. It is kind of like standard to set here 42 you will see this quite often, sometimes also that sounds like 21 half of it. But here 42 the very standard. And then we have a shock here, where we add a, yeah, a small random move to the price, right? And here, this is the message. So here, this is just preparation. And here, that's the message, which is a dictionary. And the dictionary here the payload that is sent over the socket to, yeah, whoever is listening, right? You can think of this like a radio station. The the radio host might be sitting there and speaking to the audience, but he would also speak because he can see, really, if there is somebody listening, he would also speak if there will be none in the audience, right? So here, socket sent Jason time sleep so that we have, like, not too fast around here. And then the rest is a little bit of,

Speaker 3  2:11:38  
yeah, technical, technical stuff there, right? So maybe

Speaker 2  2:11:43  
let me just do the first steps here with a new default window. Where is my default window?

Speaker 2  2:12:01  
So let me, let me go and do this live a little bit, right? So here whim,

Unknown Speaker  2:12:13  
tick server, just that we go, because this is maybe brand new to

Speaker 2  2:12:18  
almost anybody, right? Women, tick server. This is how I usually call it,

Speaker 5  2:12:25  
simple, tick data server, right?

Speaker 4  2:12:34  
The shock part is simply for random simulation, right? We we simulate something random, and because we don't have real data here, we just do a simulation, like a Monte Carlo simulation. This is what it is for, right? So import, I go with import, set and queue, import, time.

Speaker 2  2:12:57  
I'm not sitting in front of my keyword here, right and context is set and Q,

Speaker 3  2:13:06  
context, right socket is context.

Unknown Speaker  2:13:15  
Socket, set, M, Q,

Unknown Speaker  2:13:22  
power. Publisher must be capitalized. And here there is a

Unknown Speaker  2:13:34  
socket, socket,

Unknown Speaker  2:13:39  
socket, bind.

Speaker 3  2:13:45  
TCP, transfer control protocol, 127001,

Speaker 4  2:13:53  
is the local host, and once again, out of tradition,

Unknown Speaker  2:13:58  
it's the port 5555,

Unknown Speaker  2:14:02  
like you might have

Speaker 4  2:14:03  
noticed this 100 of times already, that the traditional port for Jupiter lab is 8888, so there are a couple of

Speaker 3  2:14:14  
Yeah, favorite, favorite places, right? So that's like, here our setup, and then we have the the

Speaker 4  2:14:24  
price, right? We can mimic this. Maybe we are here at 1.15 right? Not that much at 1.1 anymore. So currently, need to travel to the US in order to leverage the strength of the euro. This context, right? And basically now I can write while true, I skip, like the management part here all around so while true, we now do the following, right? We say that we go and update, and I need to update now that I see it. Life price. Usually I do it that way. When I do live coding again, coding and publishing something is a different hats for myself than the live coding here. I try to keep it as simple as possible, usually, but nevertheless, to get it running so I need something random, right price and random Gauss like for the normal distribution zero point. I'm not doing it with with NumPy. It's basically no need. NumPy is often better, faster, whatever. But here, this is good enough. I would not go here with Gauss 01 I would go with something like 0.01 for example. So somebody was asking what this little element was here, the shock, and this is here simply a something that I add to the price, which is random, so that we get some simulation of the price, right then we have the message or payload. Right message would be

Unknown Speaker  2:16:12  
here, our, the symbol.

Speaker 2  2:16:18  
Symbol, this would be here, euro, US, dollar exchange rate. Then we have, I keep it as simple as possible. Here we have the

Unknown Speaker  2:16:31  
price, right? So that's

Speaker 2  2:16:36  
the the setup. And here I going to close it. So then I can use socket, send JSON,

Speaker 4  2:16:50  
the message I don't have done any time stamping, or this can all be done much more sophisticated. So I send it wire the socket, and maybe just for checking,

Speaker 2  2:17:01  
I also print out the message here, so let me see whether we have,

Speaker 4  2:17:09  
yeah, it is now running. I started the script from my code editor here of Wim, and you see it's running, running, running. And there is, here is no here is no check for negativity, but it's also running that fast that it can get negative quite quickly. Therefore, in the original script, you have seen that there is something like time sleep. And I, in the original script, there is like a fixed time, but in markets, right there is usually something like a random arrival time. So not only the price is random from an observer point of view, but also the arrival time. So here random, this is between zero and one, and maybe I scale it up by two. So now the the break the pause, or the time, simply speaking, between two new market events, is between zero and one second. So now you see this moving much more slowly and at this pace. Yeah, it might take quite a bit, quite a while until we get in a negative territory. It's still not excluded, right? You see it's going up and down. Yeah, that's basically what I wanted to achieve. There is one more thing, usually we won't have quotes with 12 digits or whatnot. Right 12 digits? We would rather have something like

Speaker 3  2:18:58  
round price to five,

Speaker 4  2:19:02  
depending on where you have a look for at least. Let's go with five here. So we now have this running here, real time, streaming in the real world. You would get it much, much faster. But for us to read along, this is kind of like something that

Unknown Speaker  2:19:21  
is helpful, right?

Speaker 1  2:19:28  
No, it is not for my broker. This is data that I generate. I generate this data randomly, right here,

Speaker 3  2:19:41  
arbitrary. Starting value. And here we have like,

Unknown Speaker  2:19:49  
random update

Speaker 4  2:19:51  
of value. So I write value because it might be a stock, it might be FX, right? So. So we can have different this is not from an API. This is here I create the data for simulation,

Unknown Speaker  2:20:08  
right? So here we are

Unknown Speaker  2:20:12  
going and

Unknown Speaker  2:20:15  
moving, right.

Speaker 3  2:20:18  
So that's the one thing. So the next thing is that I want to that. I want to create

Unknown Speaker  2:20:30  
a tick client, as we had before. So it's simply,

Unknown Speaker  2:20:36  
maybe I just call it tick print here, client, print,

Unknown Speaker  2:20:49  
pick, data,

Speaker 4  2:20:52  
print, client. So this is even more simple. So import, set and queue would be already enough. The setup needs to be done.

Unknown Speaker  2:21:04  
Set MQ context

Speaker 2  2:21:08  
here, and then we have the socket, which is context, but socket, set MQ now

Speaker 4  2:21:22  
Sup, it's just one character pop and sub socket connect, same as before. Otherwise it doesn't work like with the radio station must be the same frequency, 127

Speaker 2  2:21:41  
point 0.0, point 1555, right? This could also be, I don't know, communicator, right, where you then do your setup and socket,

Unknown Speaker  2:21:54  
set, sock,

Speaker 2  2:21:57  
OPT, string. This is the subscription art, right? So here on the slide deck. No, this is just a server subscribers here can filter by topic, for example, symbol using subscription prefixes. So that's basically what I do here, set MQ, subscribe, and I subscribe to everything, so I'm not selecting whatever.

Speaker 4  2:22:32  
So now, while true again, as an infinite loop in the resources that are shared with you, find this in a more sophisticated way, which is a bit more appropriate, depending on what you want to do here. Since I'm typing this live, I try again to keep it as simple as possible, but nevertheless to convey the basic messages here so I have the infrastructure. And here the task is only socket, receive,

Speaker 2  2:23:06  
J son, I think that must be it. No, it's receive, receive, JSON, and this is then stored here in

Unknown Speaker  2:23:17  
message, right?

Speaker 4  2:23:20  
So message, and I want, I don't want to do that much more than printing here the message and let me check whether it runs at all. Yeah, it runs, but it doesn't do a thing. This was just a syntax check, if you like. In order to see now what is going on, I need a few more panels.

Unknown Speaker  2:23:46  
So here

Speaker 2  2:23:48  
I will run the tick server, tick server, and this can run basically forever, and on the right hand side. So here on the right hand side first, let me check up there. So when I run it from

Speaker 4  2:24:05  
the editor, you see it is now retrieving exactly the data that the server is sending, right? So that's now the if you like, the tick server is a NASDAQ or a data provider there. The data is created or provided via socket communication. And the client here tick print. This is something that we as retail trade, retail algo traders would do. We would digest the data, we would retrieve it, and then we would do something with it. And I said it before printing out is usually not something that we would like to do with it, but it's a starting point, right? It's a starting point to retrieve it and to check that we have indeed retrieved something of importance. So now it is running here. Let me

Speaker 3  2:25:01  
call this here, tick print. Here we have tick server running.

Speaker 2  2:25:13  
I was writing it in the wrong thing here, no, that one.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:19  
That one is tick. I have changed a few configurations here.

Speaker 4  2:25:29  
This is the tick. So I just want to have this here the red label, so that you see what is going on.

Unknown Speaker  2:25:37  
And this here is the code

Speaker 4  2:25:42  
editor, so that we don't me myself, and you might not get confused with all the windows

Speaker 3  2:25:49  
open, right? So

Unknown Speaker  2:25:53  
here we are in the editing. So we have in the

Speaker 4  2:25:58  
code base, we have one thing which writes it to, which writes the data to a tick database. So I will use this later on as well. But I want to show you some standard stuff, not just like a,

Unknown Speaker  2:26:15  
yeah, a

Speaker 4  2:26:17  
SQLite database, which is really like something that you will see in in, yeah, professional contacts with institutions, banks, etc, right? I want to first write a tick collector.

Speaker 5  2:26:37  
So let me do tap.

Speaker 3  2:26:41  
Now, first I copy this tick, tick print I want to have copied to tick collector.

Unknown Speaker  2:26:51  
This is a step before the database stuff, I would say, right.

Speaker 2  2:26:55  
So I've copied this, and now I can open this tick collector,

Speaker 4  2:27:09  
yeah, I'm coming now to this. It's not about having an edge with regards to HFT strategies, but let me elaborate a little bit on it, because in the real world, data,

Speaker 4  2:27:31  
in the real world, when you do algo trading, yeah, you might retrieve such data and you need, you want to, or you need to do something with it. And what does it mean? Yeah, for the first thing it is to collect that stuff. Import pandas as PD. This is usually where we collect our data.

Speaker 4  2:28:01  
Yeah, interesting questions. I first do it, and then we can discuss the interesting questions regard to a tick database, etc. So of course, the speediest thing, and therefore I'm getting started here with with pandas, is to do your collecting and your computation in memory, right? That's the first element, if you have some online algorithms where you need to come up with updated data in real time and so forth. So here, everything can stay the same. So this tick print and the tick collector, the initial stuff is the same, right? But now I want to collect the ticks in a data frame. So be the data frame that's empty to begin with, and here now, while true message, we receive it now I don't want to print it out exclusively. I want to collect it. And how do I collect it? Yeah, we could say ticks is PD,

Unknown Speaker  2:29:14  
concat, ticks and PD.

Unknown Speaker  2:29:23  
Data frame of the message,

Unknown Speaker  2:29:32  
right? So it's

Unknown Speaker  2:29:37  
I'm sending, just let me think.

Unknown Speaker  2:29:44  
Okay, I'm not it

Speaker 4  2:29:46  
could work. I'm just thinking about the types of the objects, right? Here we having. We got started with

Speaker 2  2:29:55  
JSON, right? We sent JSON, but we could send the PI. The object itself. So let me see it might work with JSON as well. So somebody Yeah, thank you. This is what is missing here. So let me just check whether this works at all.

Speaker 2  2:30:23  
I forgot to set the index.

Speaker 2  2:30:37  
Ignore, ignore index true, let me put this next line here as well.

Speaker 2  2:31:01  
Consolidated, might be ticks, data frame, let me. Let me just try what I what I was saying. Before I want to go with the object version here. That's the one thing here, object. What I was wondering before,

Speaker 2  2:31:47  
is even be pi object, right? Pi objects already in use. That's here in use already.

Speaker 4  2:32:04  
Here. This cannot retrieve it anymore. This is to be expected

Unknown Speaker  2:32:10  
that is good

Unknown Speaker  2:32:12  
tick server.

Unknown Speaker  2:32:20  
Receive, pi, object,

Unknown Speaker  2:32:33  
x over, yeah, so this is like

Speaker 4  2:32:41  
working again. I've just changed the object right? So I can send strings, I can send JSON, I can send pi object. And pi object can be basically anything that is serializable, right? Therefore, I needed to now adjust it all over the place.

Speaker 2  2:32:59  
And here I should change it to pi object as well. So this is running. Let me see whether this now works. No, there is something using old school. You must pass an index. I this is was my first instinct here, PD, data, frame,

Unknown Speaker  2:33:31  
index. This was the

Speaker 2  2:33:43  
and not I mean six or zero would now be irrelevant. Concrete takes I did this was this was not necessary. When I did this before,

Speaker 2  2:34:06  
ah, bear with me. Bear with me. Bear with me. That should hopefully be the final thing, or I need to get back to my thing here as well. I only conquered stuff that is finally we got it,

Speaker 4  2:34:32  
brackets, parentheses, etc, of course, like the Holy Grail here in Python. And now, what have we accomplished after this little back and forth, but I wanted to add it because in the current lease, in the current staple, I focused on the database side. But the database side is like maybe a step after what we are doing here. So what I mean by that is the following. So here I can run the tick print class. Find once again, this should work. And I'm going here now, opening another one. These two can still run. This will now be my

Unknown Speaker  2:35:14  
tick collector. So that one.

Speaker 4  2:35:21  
Why am I emphasizing this? Yeah, here when I simply run it. Oh, yeah. Cannot do that much, but I go now to ipython. And I Python gives me a bit more flexibility. After I have keyboard interrupted the execution, right? I can have a look at stuff. So run now. Here the tick collector. Now I run it from within IPython, and all the objects, the global objects here, there will be accessible. There will be accessible after I've run it. So I let it run a little bit. So how will synthetic data? Yeah, that's what I was saying before. Here I now show a use case for how we can use the synthetic data, or not. A synthetic data, the tick data, right cross out the synthetic if you're working with tick data. When you do this in real time, you often have no other chance than to digest the tick data, but you then want to resample it right.

Unknown Speaker  2:36:25  
Want to resample it right. So that's

Speaker 4  2:36:31  
with this question, what is the best way to store incoming data? This is what I answered. So incoming data, first in memory and second, and somebody has pointed it out already. We can write it directly to a CSV file. We can write it in a database. We can write it in different types of databases, a tick database. We can write it in SQL. Usually, I would say for retail traders. We don't need to go with the large scale institutional offerings that are available in this context, right? And using languages like C, Q or whatever, right? So that's not necessary, I would say. But it depends on the use case. I cannot say this is always the best to do, or that is always the best you must say, well, that's my use case. I'm dealing with that amount of data. The data is coming in at this frequency. What is, Against this background, the proper solution? That's something that we can then discuss, right? But pandas already provides us with a gazillion of options that are, I would say, for retail traders, already pretty, pretty good and decent. But getting back here to, getting back here to our collector, right? I have collected now ticks, right? And when I now inspect the ticks data frame here, I have it available, right? So I have now my collected tick data, which is, yeah, simulated tick data, you see 75 rows times two columns is available. So one thing that is intentionally or at this point still missing, is here a proper index, right? And what would we put in here? Typically, yeah, a timestamp at which, at the time at which we retrieve the data right. And I can use here,

Unknown Speaker  2:38:32  
for example,

Speaker 4  2:38:35  
import date time right, and once I have received here something, I can put a timestamp, date time, date time. Now this is an exact system timestamp. And instead

Unknown Speaker  2:38:56  
here of this, yeah, non

Speaker 4  2:38:59  
meaning, index, I can put a

Unknown Speaker  2:39:04  
T here, right? So when

Speaker 4  2:39:06  
I write this and rerun the whole exercise, ticks, run tick collector, it still prints out, right? That's not now the dig, the big deal, the printout looks similar. We are now below one here, maybe my my shocks are the random elements

Speaker 2  2:39:26  
are too large, maybe. But just for illustration, I want to

Speaker 4  2:39:30  
now finish here. I can go and inspect the ticks data once again, and now I have a very accurate timestamp for when I have retrieved the data point, right? It's symbol is your Yes, dollar. This is the current price or simulated fiction price here, right? And yeah, here, there are a couple of. Other there are a couple of other suggestions here, but overall, right? This is here for simple illustration, but it is, once again, closer to market reality than just reading data from a CSV file, for example, right? Here we have it now in memory. So what would be a typical next step? Yeah, a typical next step would be that we resample here, takes resample, and I mentioned before five seconds. There's not that much data here, yeah, but it works for five seconds, right? That I resample it to five seconds. And often what we see is mean or whatnot. But here in financial time series, you would need to have a last value, right? We could also do open, high, low, close, but I just go now with the resample to five seconds, and what I get here is, yeah, a much more compact view. And this is therefore people before have been asking, yeah, why are we now turning our attention to ticks? Before, I have argued that ticks probably are not what you want to do for back testing, but in real in the real time world, you might simply need to deal with real time data, right? There might not be, there might not be any way around it, right? But here we need to be careful. So have a look at the last value here. It's 14, so it's 2pm 10 minutes, 48 so, but what we get here is the last value that is correct, but the timestamp here for 48 is 45 this is not correct. There must be another configuration label right for here our time series in order to get the proper timestamp, because now in this time interval, 1048, five, second time interval, right? This is now the right limit, the right hand limit. Label, right, right.

Speaker 2  2:42:13  
I say of often, right? I know that, so I should, maybe more often, say left. I'm left here. Anyways, so

Speaker 4  2:42:21  
that's like a typical thing, and we

Speaker 2  2:42:26  
might want to add this here in our procedure as well. So we

Unknown Speaker  2:42:34  
add it here, and,

Speaker 2  2:42:40  
yeah, I can he was just checking something was correct. So I can take this for example, and would like that, and here say boss.

Speaker 4  2:43:01  
Right? Bars, and we resample them. So it's not always. I mean, here it is so fast with small data sets, right that this can be done on the whole data set. But there are, of course, online algorithms, and this is described in the resources as well. Where you want to not do the resampling all the time, or want to recalculate a mean value, or want to recalculate volatility, there are algorithms not for every single quantity that you can use to make this more efficient, right? Yeah, and resampling and smoothing the tick data we get from single points. Here you see it. This part from single ticks that are arriving at the strangest times, right? We are getting to a five second interval in my use case, this can also be, if you have your strategy run during the day, you might want to resample to 30 seconds or one minute bars, for example.

Speaker 2  2:44:08  
So I think therewith I have so far answered the questions, right?

Speaker 4  2:44:14  
So, yeah, this is like one use case where we say, Yeah, we collect the data and the data frame, we resample it, and then we provide the resample data to the strategy engine, or whatever we want to do in this regard, right? And then we have also another, the use case with the database. I'm just thinking whether I

Speaker 2  2:44:40  
should show yeah, I could show it. Let me just try. I need to copy it from code.

Speaker 2  2:44:55  
Code, tick, database, Database. Is to here and Wim,

Unknown Speaker  2:45:05  
Wim, tick database.

Speaker 2  2:45:09  
So I rather open it up there so that we don't mess up here. Tick collector, tick collector, and here, this should should be, let's see whether we get it running here. This should be tick database, because it's

Speaker 4  2:45:28  
I have developed now everything, step by step with my setup. In the documented setup, it might be slightly different.

Speaker 2  2:45:38  
Therefore let me check and here I save that one and open

Unknown Speaker  2:45:50  
tick database. Now let me

Speaker 4  2:45:54  
open this one, create an open SQLite database. This should all be fine. I'm basically concerned with, with here, the connection,

Speaker 2  2:46:06  
TCP, IP, subscribe to ticks and write them. Sets up. This should all be

Unknown Speaker  2:46:15  
okay

Unknown Speaker  2:46:18  
in line here, the writing as well. But the only thing let me just see is,

Speaker 2  2:46:27  
yeah, but it should work. I need to just change here JSON to pi object,

Unknown Speaker  2:46:38  
my object, I tick.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:47  
You see there's all this management kind of thing around it.

Speaker 4  2:46:58  
So, yeah, it will be, if everything works, it will be written here in ticks, DB, Python,

Unknown Speaker  2:47:12  
beta base. So

Speaker 2  2:47:17  
I wasn't sending any time, right? My tick server doesn't have time.

Speaker 2  2:47:27  
Let me see the code here. Tick server doesn't have time.

Speaker 2  2:47:42  
Let me just set here. Let me see what was imported. I

Speaker 2  2:48:04  
so I need to import this here. Import date, 580, I can do it like the same way I did before that. We have here the time as well. So we receive it and then we timestamp it, date time, date

Unknown Speaker  2:48:28  
time. Now

Speaker 2  2:48:32  
I'm pretty sure this won't work with let me see if it works. If it accepts my Python object, I would assume where we text. No, it is. It is defined as text up there. So I need to transform this to text. Let me see view changes here. I call this upper upper case,

Unknown Speaker  2:49:16  
upper case.

Speaker 4  2:49:21  
These are not the changes because I did it live, and I'm not using the server here from the setup. So this is now doing its trick, and by doing its trick, let us check how this looks like. And we have here our ticks database, right? Right? So this script that I've adjusted so that it fits with the server, and this holds true in practice as well, right? This holds true in practice as well. You have maybe one code which works with one platform that you want to change to another platform. Yeah, you need to adjust your whole approach. And now let me see here. I Python

Speaker 2  2:50:05  
import Sq, sq nine three as Sq, three connection is, yeah, have a look at this one here, ticks DB

Unknown Speaker  2:50:24  
and on, execute match all and I have read

Unknown Speaker  2:50:32  
now from the

Speaker 4  2:50:34  
from the database, I have read all the entries, oh, we have come a long way down to point five. Hopefully this won't happen. So this is now an application that I've adjusted to my live tick server. I will push that as well to the GitHub repos, so that you have this combination as well there, right? So tick server, then simple tick print. Then we have collected the data in a pandas data frame. We have we have resampled it to five second bars, and what we could also do now, somebody was saying that we could persist this on disk. Maybe it is one of the last things that I'm going to do here,

Speaker 2  2:51:30  
here in collector, right? If you say, for example,

Speaker 5  2:51:38  
here, I could say I zero. All right, then

Speaker 2  2:51:46  
I plus equals one, so simply a counter, so that we wouldn't write it every time, and then we would say, if I divides by

Unknown Speaker  2:52:01  
10 or whatever, right

Speaker 4  2:52:05  
then we would write either ticks or bars. We can now discuss right bars

Speaker 5  2:52:14  
to CSV, bars, CS, V or we could let me,

Speaker 2  2:52:26  
let me do it with ticks that it's named like the other thing there, right? Ticks, I mean, to persist the raw data doesn't make sense anyway, right? So that we write the data frame to this and we save it. And where do we have to tick collector? Here, let me run this one tick collector.

Speaker 4  2:52:56  
Of course, everything starts from scratch. All my ticks that I have collected previously, etc, right on our in here, pandas, of course, there's also options to append. For example, with HDF five, you can append data or new data frames to existing databases, right so here in between, if everything works well, it should every once in a while, so every 10 iterations, it should write it to this. Maybe let me check here. It's my last active command line here. So LS ticks as CSV, right? I can now have a look at ticks CSV. And this is now my CSV file on disk, I can now import this again. I can share it. I can write this is not a proper database, but I would say this is one of the most simple and most widely used data exchange formats at all. That's still the least common denominator in the financial ecosystem, CSV data files, and it's fast in terms of writing, not as fast as binary storage, but still, for our purposes, here, fast enough so have we the saving years roll without any SQLite, just see as V Okay, so this is here in a folder, and I will,

Unknown Speaker  2:54:20  
I will put this on the

Speaker 4  2:54:23  
in the repo as well, right? So real time, streaming data, collecting, writing to a database, resampling, and then plugging it all in here in

Unknown Speaker  2:54:35  
I go back to this overview chart for

Speaker 4  2:54:39  
now, multiple times. Right? The data handler, this was for us, just like the CSV data handler as it was called in the long script in the notebook, it was a bit shorter, and this could now be here something like a socket, a web socket subscription service that we check well, and we can use it for for. Example, paper trading that we deal with, real time trading and simulate execution. Or we use it here to generate signals that we get into the portfolio, one which routes the orders to the execution venue, right to a proper platform. Or we get back and store the information from the fields, if there are any right. So with market orders, we will have fields in any case, generally speaking. So to wrap this part up, this was the streaming part. Here is the subscriber. This was the subscriber with the shorter version here with the database, which I adjusted in order to be able to connect to the to the Yeah, the tick server that we together developed live right? And what I was saying before that not everything needs to be done all the time and vectorized fashion over all the data set. This might be too demanding right from a certain point on, there are like online algorithms which are known to be stable. So it's really a mathematical problem, if you like. And here's, for example, an online mean algorithm, for example, right? So that you can hear, yeah, update a value which is dependent on multiple values, but where you're nevertheless, just take into account the last the new observation also interesting. We haven't used this or implemented this, but it is an important aspect here. So now to wrap up, maybe you will dream of efficient markets, right? The villain, the monster in the movie, but we should now rethink after everything that we have done and that we have discussed and which I have added to here in this little slide deck, and where we have our impressive 70.6% of retail CFD accounts that lose money, right? And here the the the hedge funds, which cannot even beat like widely or broadly diversified indices, equity indices, and nevertheless charge people two plus 20% so 2% management fee, 20% success fee, and invest hundreds of millions of dollars, and I have added in the resources, I think, in the beginning here as well, just to highlight not in that part in the other one. So I'm jumping around now a little bit, but this is so important that I'm not getting tired. To recommend it, because I have added, this is the one reference here. I have added this reference, and in the article it is added as well. I think, yeah, that's the updated version. What we were talking about this yesterday. So Mark Yale, here's little new text right on the practitioner and popular side. Mark yells Random Walk Down Wall Street. I have it on my bookshelf. You should listen to it as an audio book. Wonderful. Listen when you drive a car, or, I don't know, ride the bus, or like myself, walk the dogs, you don't need to have the physical book, I would say, help bring the random walk hypothesis and efficient market perspective on investing to a broad audience of individual investors and portfolio managers. Right? Here is the link 10. It's the 13th edition. So it must be something useful in there, right? That the first edition was published in 1973 and now the lay at the last iteration was published in 2023

Unknown Speaker  2:59:01  
right? So,

Speaker 4  2:59:02  
having said that much, let me here go or jump from this to efficient markets

Unknown Speaker  2:59:10  
revisited right in the age of algorithms,

Speaker 4  2:59:17  
in an algorithm dominated world, the efficient market hypothesis is best viewed as a moving benchmark, right, that depends on information, the tools, the models, everything that is available. Right? When I started studying that stuff, I haven't had a notebook carrying to the university, I was sitting with the printed papers and the books at the at the Library of our university in our building, right? There was no technology in that sense that we have it today in front of us, like myself here, three screens, etc. This was a long time ago, right? I'm old enough so we have our information sense, right? That include prices, volumes, order, books, snapshots. Regard to the question from before news feeds and other stuff, alternative data search technologies range from individual researchers to large teams equipped with powerful optimization and back testing infrastructure. Modern classes extend from simple linear predictions to non linear machine learning and reinforcement learning models, right? So that's like your set that you can work with, like statements about no free lunch must therefore be read as relative to current st, TT and MT, rather than as timeless law. It's not like a physics law, right? When Einstein, our German Einstein, where we're all proud of here, came up with special relativity, and among others, with this famous formula, e equals mc squared, like energy equals mass times the square of the speed of light, right? This is something that holds true. Still today, that's a physical law. But in finance, we don't have something equivalent as physical laws, right? We have compounding and stuff like that. But not here. It's an hypothesis. It's not like a law. It doesn't say efficient market law. It's an hypothesis, right? So you need to check, what is your information set, what you want to work with, what are your technologies that can leverage, and what are the model classes that you can use in order to achieve your goals? Somebody's asking, Which books I've published to better understand this stuff? Yeah, if you want to get started really from scratch, which I can only recommend, if you have no formal training in finance, you should start with that's also the thinnest book. It's financial theory with Python is right behind me. This is really an introduction. It doesn't really discuss efficient markets. It discusses arbitrage, which rests on efficient markets, etc. So with that, you will get a good formal grounding in everything finance, math and Python that you need in order to move on and to understand these topics better. But there are wonderful books out there, and they're still the I would recommend if you want to have a standard book. I was here looking for flash boys before it's financial theory, no.

Speaker 2  3:02:24  
Financial theory with Python is what pops up,

Speaker 4  3:02:29  
financial theory and corporate policy. So that's the one that I would recommend here. You get this used for, like, very, very small, very small money, and it, it's that thick, you cannot listen to it as an as an audio book, because it's simply too technical. So here is, let me just check here, that is a book. You see, this is used. The book is used. It's one of my favorite because it's not too technical, many, many stories, many background information. But it has been published a while back, so when you see numbers or tables or whatnot, it will have not really current stuff, but for the theory, for the background, where we are all coming from here in financial theory and corporate policy, it's also about dividends and stuff like that. But particularly the very first part, and then also the not too technical parts about option pricing, etc. They are really, really useful. And you see here, I wasn't aware of the fact that they are like, available in used fashion here for 349 This is a heavy book, right? They say here. It's free of charge for delivery from 19 Euro. Maybe I will order a couple of copies and give my son his own, etc, because he's studying Data Science and Artificial Intelligence, but doesn't have yet a real venue into finance, so I would recommend him such a book as well. So that was a question here. So you decide what information, what data you use, what technologies you have available, and which models you want to work with, right? And you should see algorithmic trading as an hypothesis testing, right? Useful way to structure your thinking is about, about algorithmic strategies is to treat them as hypothesis, right? And to say, well, the EMH style null, to say, well, this is like, what is true versus, I have found something that is not null, right? So the null hypothesis, conditional on a chosen information set, expected excess returns are zero after cost and risk adjustment. So this is like as if the EMH would hold true. So what is the alternative? Alternative is that you come up with something, right? You. Come up with a specific trading rule or model that yields positive expected excess returns in certain states of the world, right? And then you run a back test that corresponds to computing a test statistic. You say, yeah, no, my strategy cannot hold up given that test or the strategy holds up, right? And this might be a first, yeah, step towards a successful trading application, right? And here running a back test, sorry. Here overfitting data snooping and multiple testing. Of course, you should, you should avoid, right? This can easily produce apparently significant results that are purely artifacts of research, of the research process, right? In other words, in other words, and here, this is from another famous book. And you might guess, you might guess where the title is coming from here a non Random Walk Down Wall Street. And yeah, you might end up by doing so, by having the right mindset with something that is saying, Yeah, this is worth pursuing. And I'm getting more tired here to go to the final one, right? And this is where, yeah, I spent time, time, time on the research, and from a certain point on, yes, yes. And now I'm willing to, I don't know, allocate 100 US dollar in order to test my strategy in the real world. And trust me, risking 50 or 100 US dollar is is different to having a paper account with your broker where you have 100,000 US dollar that you can lose without any pain, even losing 100 This is not about the pain, maybe that you feel with regard to the absolute amount, is having lost real money at all right? It's like going to the casino and you lose a little bit of money. This is still feels different than seeing other people, for example, losing the money. So beyond back test, right? You should not see back test as the strategy itself, right? Where you say, Oh, my machine. I have had my machine run overnight. The machine did a million back tests, and I will now deploy the best one or the best five of them, right? So Lopez de Prado did, yeah, emphasize this thoroughly and systematically in his book and in his papers before here, the book is from 2018 that I first referenced advances in financial machine learning. The second book he published is a little bit later about causal factor investing, right? And he says that back tests are validation tools, not substitutes for genuine research on features or causal structure, right? So real research focuses on designing economically meaningful features and labels, right? Spurious correlations and historical data are abundant and can always be manufactured by sufficiently flexible pipelines, right? If you, if you look deep enough, right, you will find something right. Then the you shouldn't fall into the trap of believing in what you have found there, right? So Python based workflows make large scale experimentation, easy. This is what I was saying overnight, a million back test. Who cares? Next night, I do another million, right? But the risk of self deception giving large numbers is simply too high, right? And then here, this is something that I added later, after I was basically finished with the whole material, right? This old saying of correlation where there's causation, right? Correlation describes symmetric co movement, right? There's a good example with regard to the VIX and the SPX, right? They are highly correlated, but they don't cause each other, right? You can test this rigorously, or even with simple test, you will see that, right? So if returns and a signal are correlated, both may simply respond to a third driver, right? Something else that is going on out there. So causal links usually generate some correlation in well behaved systems, but many correlations arise from pure purely from chance or shifting regimes. So trading rules should therefore be grounded in stories about how changes in underlying drivers, the factors right, plausibly affect prices. You should have an idea. You should be able to explain somebody else why this is supposed to be the case, even with like charts when you use technical right, you will say, yeah. My hypothesis is that when the price goes through the upper band of the Bollinger band by more than five points, then this will trigger a lot of selling orders, and this will push. Back the price, right? Even with these technical things, you need to be able to explain them first to yourself and to think, Yeah, is this clear, and does it make sense? Is this logic? Maybe you write it down and read it on the next day, right? This is really important. So thinking explicitly about mechanisms helps separate fragile sample specific relationships from patterns that are robust enough to underpin real capital allocation. And there have been questions with the car through can I replace ordinary stress repression with machine learning, maybe also deep learning? There is a reason why linear models in finance have stuck around that long. Right? We all know that linear models do not describe too well the real world in the financial markets, but they are robust, right? Linear Models work not too good in certain regimes, but they work well overall. And this is what you would call robust, right? That's the idea. Now I had to, and the slide deck was already too large for my taste, but I had to include this year,

Speaker 4  3:11:07  
the cranes are causality in time series. It's not actually a causality in a physical sense of you, right? Physical sense that I push something, if I push now my screen, it falls down. That's physical causality. Here we have nevertheless means to check whether x a process X Ranger causes, therefore, here the conditional Granger causes Y if past values of x help to forecast y beyond what past values of y alone can achieve. This is all pretty technical, and I don't want to you should read this in detail, and should go to the scripts I have provided you with scripts here as well, right? Here are the technicalities. They look pretty technical, but it's not that hard to understand, I would say, right? You see here, x is something which is autoregressive, one AR, one where we have x t is given by X t minus one times a factor. So it's not like large value. It's 20% plus a random shock for x, right? So, and now comes the major, major difference, right? Here you see the target process Y is driven by lack values of x, right? Not self, not autoregressive. It is regressive to x. So yt is better, better here, 50% times X t minus one. And we all agree here, right? This is just like regressive to itself before. But x here drives the evolution, not perfectly. This is not what is required for a causal relationship, not perfectly, but this X t minus one is a predictor for yt, and this is what you need to look for. This is here we could say a factor based model, right? So you should look for stuff that helps you predicting what you're interested in predicting, right? And beta, of course, in that case, if you do a regression, should be something significantly different from zero, right? If it's close to zero, yeah, this is usually a numerical issue, right? So therefore, here then the explanation how this all works. There is the there is the the code hopefully explained in every detail that you might require. But here we see the result, right? If we just, if we just regress like do our autoregressive approach that we have introduced quite early, right? Then we have here, YT on YT, right? Mean is minus one. This alone, having a look at the time series doesn't explain anything. It's almost exactly zero, right? This is here, the R squared comparison, but when we take into account here x for our regression style analysis here, taking into account the previous step and the previous value from x, right? Then we have here an R squared of 23% so then the regression explains 23% of the variance right of what we observed, right? So here's like, that's a footnote. Somehow, this footnote, you see, this is r squared, but nine, here is the footnote. So hopefully you're not, you're not irritated by this 29 it looks like right nine is the footnote here for. R square, right? So this is really what we should be looking for within the time series. So that's the major message within the time series. Just looking at yt minus one, etc, we don't see anything. But here having XT included, xt minus one included for the regression, we get like something meaningful, and we need to look for these factors, right, that cause something else, not where there is something like a correlation in this regard. So you should consider the tools that we have developed during this, these lectures, during the talk, right, to help enforce discipline around research and validation, right? If you don't get or take away anything else, don't look at the code. Don't look at, I don't know, the minute details, the numbers, just internalize. You need to master like the financial language, the mathematical language and the programming language. If you master these you are flexible. You know your shit as they would say, right? And then you can deal with any situation. You can discuss different strategies. You can have a look at the YouTube video and say, Yeah, I agree with the guy. I don't agree with it. I would do it differently. I take a look at the code, right? But without having that background, where's the point that following along a guy who can tell or maybe girls as well? I'm not sure, but I would think that this niche is dominated by by male YouTubers, right? But if you don't have the background, and you don't can, you cannot judge what they are saying. It's pretty difficult. Therefore my first message, invest the time go maybe the longer way. And what I was writing here on the first slide, this should be internalized. It's a saying. It's not clear who has said it for the first time, but there are no shortcuts to any place worth going. There are no shortcuts, right? I've been doing martial arts since more than 40 years, but, and I'm doing so many things since decades, right? And I wouldn't say I'm a master in this and there, there are no shortcuts. If you show up in a gym, right, at an MMA gym, or I do prepping Brazilian Jiu Jitsu these days most often, right? You cannot show up and say, Yeah, well, how can I be a master, a black belt within three months? There is no such thing. There is no such thing, and there is no master algorithmic trader and successful algorithmic trader, which does it within three months, right? There might be lucky ones, but the lucky ones are not the ones who will keep up that pace. So key takeaways, EMH, and when the walks provide our benchmark, right? It's not that I say that's like the truth. It's a benchmark, right? Any trading room must justify itself relative to this standard, small mathematical toolkit. We don't need that much math, right, if it's not too sophisticated. So in option pricing, for example, you need a ton of math, right? But in algorithmic trading, it is the basics. But the basics are even more important than in any other use case, I would say, right? Vectorized, event based streaming architectures, they are all like tools that you should play around with, like juggling with the tools, using every tool whenever they need arises for it right? Object oriented design, there was this major question towards the end of the last session, why do we do event based back testing and here oop, yeah, this helps keep growing the code bases and keeping them modular, testable and, yeah, we haven't discussed things like unit tests and stuff like that. This is more for production engineering environment, right? But here we are mostly concerned with the basics, therefore proper basics, but not yet, like the software engineering parts added to the whole story. So where to go next? When you ask, What shall I do? What shall I do? Yeah. Pearl, right. Judea Pearl, this book, How to Overcome self deception, yeah, rigorous analysis, rigorous work, hard work, rigorous analysis. And always saying to yourself, I can't believe this is true, and then you can prove yourself wrong. This is hard right, because we suffer from what is called confirmation bias. And if you are not too used to this concept, you should google this up. We always look for confirmation, but we should do the opposite. You should be like a reviewer in a scientific journal, right? They are looking for the errors, right? They are not looking for fancy stuff that they would like to agree with. This is how you would need to go about your own stuff. So you should maybe after you have internalized that, you have read the article two or three, four times over the next four or five weeks. So I don't know, right? You should then maybe apply this, replace strategies and replace data sets, introduce train test splits, validation, maybe rolling back test, etc, right? You can then go into machine learning and deep learning, right? You can explore reinforcement learning. I've been working on that recently as well. Maybe some of you know that I teach for the CQF, for example, as well. Beyond my own programs, our own programs there, the focus is on reinforcement learning for asset management, right? So extend the data sources. Maybe have a look at the book.

Speaker 4  3:20:41  
The code is free. Anyways, maybe you have access to a platform. And yeah, having said that, of course, I wish you all the success with your algorithmic trading endeavors, but it's like raising kids, right? They need to do their own stuff. They need to learn. You can just support them. You can explain. You can prevent them from doing crazy shit, but yeah, similar to the saying nobody else can do the push ups for you, like a kid, needs to learn, needs to study. Math, needs to learn the language, needs to learn to write. Here in algorithmic trading, you need to learn the financial language, the mathematical underpinnings, and, of course, the Python coding itself. I hope I have given you a broad, if not comprehensive overview of what it entails, and a good basis for you to further explore. In that sense, hope to see you soon in some online session, or maybe even live for those one day in person. In any case, take care. Bye, bye, bye.

