Speaker 1  0:03  
Greetings, greetings everyone who is here. Just give it a minute for all the participants to get in. Hope everybody's doing well, wherever you are in the world right now. It is morning where I am. I think it might be night time for some of you. So, good evening for those that is night time. Okay, so while people are still coming in, I'll just introduce myself. My name is Brian Brian Christopher. I am, I guess I don't know exactly what my title would be now, but what I tend to do for clients is I build these systems, these research systems and platforms for for quant trading. I've been doing research also for a long time, I'm a self-taught Python programmer, as well, and a chartered, chartered financial analyst. The name of my company is Black Arbs, and what else is worth mentioning, and I've been teaching this lecture now with Quan History for a few years. It's definitely gone, gone over some major revisions over that time. As you know, as we become better, we refine our work, and now this lecture is basically a distillation of the building blocks of a very common and useful machine learning workflow, so this is actually the building blocks for one of the ones I use professionally as well, so hopefully it's a value to you, whoever or wherever you are in your particular quant trading or quant research journey. As for the lecture, hopefully that you guys feel comfortable asking questions. Generally, I prefer that these lectures be a little bit interactive, if possible, given the subject matter. It can be a little bit dense and a lot to cover, and so some, and also because people have different backgrounds, so I don't want to assume people understand things that I might think, are you know, might think it is well known, or something of that nature. So, feel free to ask questions as we continue. Actually, let me see this. Okay, and so before we start, I just want to make sure that the audio is clear and that it's not breaking up or anything odd that would prevent anybody from consuming the material. Okay, awesome. Give it about one more minute. Good evening to you as well. It's, it's morning here, so I'm drinking my morning coffee, I awesome think one more minute, and then we'll just get started. We'll jump right into it. I have a question for you guys. So, how familiar are you guys with machine learning this far? Have you used it in any other context or applications outside of finance, or are you familiar with its use in finance already? I Someone answered outside finance. What types of applications have you used it before? Oh, cool. Healthcare. Here awesome, others via Quant Instity. Okay, so we got some first timers as well. Oh, nice. I'm actually, I've actually. Incorporated a lot more regime detection in my workflow. We don't touch on it here because it's a little bit more advanced. Maybe at the end you can tell me a little bit about it. I'm curious. Oh, wow, cool. So, there's a lot of people who have diverse backgrounds as it relates to machine learning in finance. Seems like a lot of people have maybe touched on it in their careers or outside of finance. Some people are brand new, for the people who are new, or for the people who are familiar, but not, you know, but having used it in a finance context again, feel free to ask questions, because again, I don't want to assume that you know something that maybe I kind of just glossed over, and you know, we need to revisit it, so with that said, hope, hopefully everybody can see my screen, and we'll get started. So, let's see, so developing trading strategies with machine learning. So, again, this is this is an overview, right? It's not going to give you all of the quote unquote secret sauce. There's a lot that can be built on this, so, like I said, I tried to distill it down to the fundamentals, and you know, give you a framework from which you can then add your own spin or do your own research as a follow up, so we're going to discuss the benchmark, the whole workflow from establishing a benchmark to a hypothetical production deployment, obviously the deployment part will be very high level.

Speaker 1  7:04  
That's a very detailed component of the system, whereas right now we're kind of talking about making sure that we set up our pipeline to give us results that we can trust, right? That's really what it comes down to, and some of you with experience with machine learning and other in other applications will have to adjust a little bit, because there are some unique characteristics as it relates to finance that make certain approaches non-viable, so we'll talk a little bit about interpretability. This is still an open area of research as well, and actually I'll touch on this more when we get there. We'll talk about walk forward validation, we'll talk about event-driven back testing. We're using real market data, and we're using a UV environment. So, this is all the UV environment stuff's not really related, but just, you know, just to be thorough. So, assuming that you're all set up, we're going to touch on module one. So, this is the benchmark model, and we're going to cover how we set up benchmarks. We're going to set up, talk about how we need to split data, and we're going to talk about why we have to split data a certain way, and what we need to make sure that we don't do in order in order to have valid results, there's some very common ways that people do research that actually sabotages their results out of sample, so module one benchmark, so we're going to establish a three, a three model performance baseline. We'll talk about that again. We're going to go through walk forward validation, which is the primary approach for time series data, and then we're going to go through the anti patterns in action, and so this is probably, in my opinion, one of the most crucial parts of the entire lecture, because in the past I've made errors with this, I've seen a lot of academic papers in the past make errors like this. I haven't read a lot of papers recently, so I don't know how much has improved. I know in recent history there was a reproducibility crisis that made it very difficult for people to replicate results that were being published. From academic researchers, and that was because of a lot of these errors. So, let's, let's get into it. Let me see, make sure I can see the questions, if there are any. Okay. No open questions. Cool, do So part one, the benchmark benchmark hierarchy, right? So, at major funds, every strategy needs to be compared to a naive baseline. In this case, we're going to set up a dummy classifier again, so we're approaching this from the machine learning perspective, but you also need benchmarks for your actual strategy as well, so just keep that in mind. So, this, this is a machine learning benchmark, which is also critical, but then you also need a strategy benchmark. So, I didn't write that in here, but that's something to keep to make note of, right. So, a strategy benchmark would be something like if you have a long only strategy that you develop with a machine learning model, you need a benchmark that is long only without any type of modification, like a buy and hold for the market that you are trading. In this case, we need to start with a dummy model. So, what does that mean? A dummy model is the absolute performance floor for a machine learning model, so it has no features, right? No features at all, and it does not know anything about the data, other than what I'm going to discuss in a second. Then we'll move on to a simple model, and this is again to illustrate how we set up the workflow in terms of data management, right. How do we make sure that we don't bias our results or leak information that would not be available to us at the time of prediction, and then we'll add some domain knowledge to this model, right, and add some micro structure features, so notice that each one builds on the one previous. So, starting with the absolute minimum, we'll build the dummy model. So, the rule again, you never want to deploy a strategy without a benchmark comparison, and that's for machine learning, as well as your actual strategy, as well.

Speaker 1  12:48  
You need a benchmark, so if you're able to beat the baseline, then you can move forward. It's not always directly to funding, but if you can beat the baseline, it's worth it's worth further investigation if you lose the baseline, especially dummy baseline that doesn't know anything. Then you know you have to restart, right? That's pretty basic. So the idea is, you know, a researcher might propose a strategy with 62% accuracy. Again, this is just don't worry about the metric, but the dummy classifier achieves a baseline of 61% Well, is that 1% improvement actually significant enough to warrant the effort to continue with the strategy? No, it's not, especially if transaction costs were not considered. So, this is this is the benefit of it again. The lesson that's that you should take away is context matters more than absolute performance, right. So, again, if you're able to create a strategy, say you are, you are trading equities, you're able to create a strategy that has pretty good performance, right. Say, over a three year period, the strategy outputs, you know, 25% absolute return, that sounds pretty good, but when you compare it to a buy and hold benchmark for the, you know, for an ETF over the same, for the same universe, if that also performed at 25% or 26% or 24% is your strategy actually good, or is it just taking advantage of the market environment? See what I'm saying. So this is the code part of it. I'll leave this for you guys. To review, if you actually have actual questions about the code itself, feel free to ask me. I don't want to bog down the lecture with, you know, technical implementation details, especially when you have the notebooks for reference yourself, and we can always circle back as well, um Real quick, so as I'm continuing, does the concept of the naive benchmark make sense to people, and why we might use that? Okay, cool. Okay, so now we need to set up our horizon, right? So we have to, we have to make some, a couple of decisions for this research, right? So we have to decide on the horizon, we have to decide on our target for those who are familiar with machine learning, you understand, you understand that in supervised learning you need to have a target for which to train the model, right. In this case, we're going to simplify it, and we're going to use a horizon of five day future returns, and we're going to look at the sign, right. We're going to try to predict the sign over that five day horizon. So this is just showing the loading of the data that we're going to use, we're going to talk a little bit more about the choice in Horizon as well. That's also a contextual decision that you're going to have to make as well, in terms of constraining the research space, right, because the horizon is going to change the strategy results as well. Okay, so let's get into the data splitting. So this is also a very key, key, key component. Hold on one second, spilled my coffee while I was talking to you guys. Okay, so the data splitting strategy. So this is one of the key frameworks, the key baselines that you have to understand, especially if you've, if you have used machine learning and other applications, the splits are very important, and it has to be done in a very particular way that is different to account for the issues that come up when you are using time series data, so we have, we have to, we have to use a temporal split from one right, because financial data has time dependencies, a lot of the tools that we, we use would implement a random split, right? I think train test split, and some of the other common pipelines will do random splits. That is also a problem, right? We can't leak future into the past and then the walk forward nature actually mimics production reality, right?

Speaker 1  18:47  
Like the idea would be if you were to deploy a strategy today, you'd have to do some sort of feature engineering, some sort of development, you fit the model and then make predictions, and then you'd use those predictions for a certain number of days or weeks or perhaps months, and then after you'd evaluate and then rerun the pipeline again, right, refitting the model on the incoming data, so What are the three splits, the training data, the validation, the training split, the validation split, and the test split? Right, those are the three. The training set is used for feature engineering and model development, really model choice as well, right. So this is where you are able to iterate. Very important, this is typically going to be the largest chunk of your data as well, but ideally. When you choose it, you want to choose training data that either has the has a wide variety of market regimes, right? For example, bull regimes, where the market is expanding upwards, bear regimes, where the market is expanding downwards, transitional regimes, or mean reversion regimes, where the market is kind of just in one place, ranging, unless you have a very particular market that you're looking for to build your model on, you want to, you want to have your training set represent the the marketing environment that your model is most likely to encounter, right. So, for example, you don't want to train, you don't want to train a all-purpose strategy or model only on a bullish environment, right. We can, we can see how that would bias the results, and if we are in any type of market environment that's not bullish, and we deploy that that model or strategy is likely to lose money immediately, right, so So somebody asked me, what is the naive benchmark in this case. We're going to get to it right after this, actually. So I'm going to answer it coming up first. We're going to talk about the splits, and then we'll get to the benchmark. The next split will be validation. So this is where this is where you would do like hyper parameter tuning for your model, right? So in training you're going to use all you're going to do your feature engineering, you're going to decide which model you're going to use, random forest, on, you know, neural networks, what else support vector machine, whatever? Right, you're going to choose one. All of those models have parameters, right? And so once we get to the validation phase, we're no longer engineering our features, we're now trying to, we're now trying to tune the model and validate the quote unquote out of sample performance of our original feature engineering component, and again, if it doesn't, if it's not 100% clear, we're going to go through it through examples, and then finally we get to our test set. This is the final holdout set. You cannot iterate on this set of data. This is meant for the final when everything is good, when you have your features and dialed in, when you have your model dialed in, your model parameters dialed in, and everything is set. Finally, you can test it on the test set, but you only have one chance to do that. So, your test set, you want to, you want to cherish it. You don't want to just use it, use it without reason, right? You don't want to jump to that, so sure. So somebody asked me that they can, they come from a non-quoting, non-coding, and non-quant background. Can I take a practical trading example from Global Markets for explaining the concepts? Yeah, I'll talk on that. And then, and then this is another question. It's a great question as well. I, this person understands why it's important to preserve the temporal order of the series. Right, I talked about how the splits have to be temporal, but they are asking, how can we overcome the fact that at the same time history never exactly repeats itself, so what you're talking about is how do we make sure that our model generalizes, and we're going to, we're going to go over that as well. That's a great question, and trust me, we're going to touch on it throughout the lecture, and if I haven't addressed it specifically, remind me, and I'll come back to it.

Speaker 1  24:44  
As for the non-practical or the practical understanding, so if you have data, say you have NIFI data from 2000 to 2023 the first thing you want to do is split it into these three chunks, right, for this period of time. Yeah, and then we're going to go through what you're going to do at what you're going to do with each of these chunks through the pipeline, right? So let's start there, and we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about the what are we going to talk about next? Yeah, we're going to get to the classifier. So, first I want to make sure that the splits make sense. Why we, why are we splitting it like this? What are we doing at each stage? Even if you don't understand it exactly, you understand the basics of the three splits. I know from other applications. Generally speaking, you don't need three, you can just use two. Are those of you who are familiar with machine learning and other applications, are you usually are you using three splits or using two splits? Generally, and when you are splitting the data, are you splitting it temporally, or just, or is the data set not temporal, so you don't have to worry about that? I'm curious, I Okay, cool. In the past, people have asked me about the sizing of these splits. Like I said, typically you want the training set to be the largest. The validation and testing sets can be almost equivalent, as you can see here. Um, there's no like hard rule about this, but this is kind of the, this is kind of the heuristic, the what's common. Okay, so somebody said they do train and test, not to import. Yeah, so this is where we start to diverge a little bit in terms of how we utilize machine learning in finance. So our target five day forward returns, right up and down, we are removing periods of zero returns. That's a very small portion of the of the actual data. I think I have that in the notebook as well, and you can see that. So, it doesn't, it doesn't actually help our research to leave those in, even though it's more quote unquote accurate. It actually makes it much more difficult for the model to learn patterns. Quick note, we use two horizons in this in this particular notebook, and there's a specific purpose we're using the five day horizon for the simple models and for the anti pattern demos because it has it is much more easy to see the results of the mistakes that most people make. It's easy to show the results of leakage for the actual development moving forward. We're going to use the 10 day for the micro structure, because this actually performs better for these particular liquidity features, keep in mind we're using daily data as well, so these horizons would change based on the time frame that you are developing for, so again, like I said, symbol features work better at the five day, and especially for the anti-pattern demo, the microstructure features actually work better on the a little bit longer horizon, and so we'll talk about this feature engineering. Also, needs to match the features to the horizons, and we explore that in a, in a feature notebook, alright. So now we're getting to the the naive benchmark in this case. Oh, I see a question here regarding label creation and so this, let me see if I understand your question, so you're saying if we do, if we do five day late, if we label based on five days, assume. To have a second day return that it is so negative that it wipes out capital and then backs a positive. Is it the right way to create a label? I'm not sure I understand this question. If you can, if you can clarify it, I'll try to answer it. Okay, so now getting to the benchmark. What is the naive benchmark? I mentioned this earlier. So now we're here in this case, for a machine learning model. The benchmark is what we call a dummy classifier. I think they also have one for regression as well, in this case, we're using for classification. This is the absolute baseline. Why this establishes an absolute performance floor. What does it do? How does it make predictions if it doesn't use features?

Speaker 1  30:59  
It predicts according to the class distribution of of the target data, right. So, if in this case, if we have 55% of our data split, predict the result is up, right, or positive returns over the horizon, and 45% down, it will predict up with 55% probability. Right, it doesn't know any features, so it's only looking at the distribution of the class of the classes in the in the in the target data. Okay, so why use this? So this tests our validation framework, independent of model. It gives us a performance floor, and any real model must beat this right. So again, let's think about this in a, in, in a non-machine learning terminology. If you were to come up with a strategy that 150 5% of the time, you might think, "Wow, this is a really good strategy. I should go invest in this right away, or deploy this right away, right? Whether you are trading discretionary or coming up with a machine learning model, you might think this, this is good, you know, better than a coin flip. Well, what if. what if the what if the market environment you were in had a distribution that was exactly this 55% so even if you knew nothing, if you didn't use your strategy, but the market was having positive returns of 55% probability or 55% of the time, did you actually come up with a winning strategy, or are you just benefiting from the market itself? You see what I'm saying. So we need this, we need a benchmark in order to validate the performance of our decisions, right, because we're at, we're adding all of this additional complexity, and it has to be justified, right. We need a return on that on that investment, so if, if a naive benchmark that doesn't utilize any features can beat our model, then what are we doing? Right, we're wasting time. So, hopefully that makes sense. Um, before I move on, does that make sense for everybody? Why we need this dummy, why we need the, the dummy model. How does, how does the dummy model work, and how does it fit in this context? Does that make sense? Okay, so I'm seeing some, some yeses. If this doesn't make sense, just please, you know, please ask questions, or ask me to, you know, review, or tell me which part doesn't make sense. I see your question about the return. I'm gonna, I'm gonna circle back to this, so hold on to this question, and I'll come back to it. So all strategies are compared to naive baselines before funding, right? So we talked about that, mm. This is just showing the the setup for our for our pipeline, or for this part of the pipeline. The dummy classifier again, it doesn't use features, but we need the shape for the for scikit learn, so Okay, so we talked about setting up the, so we've gone through some setup components, right. We're laying the foundation right now. So we've talked about the temporal splits, right. We have our training data, our validation data, and our in our holdout set, our test set. Right now, we are talking about the training set. Everything we're, we're discussing right now is related to the training set, so we've laid that foundation, we also have talked about the the benchmark, right, so we've established the dummy classifier, how it works and why we need it, those are the two concepts we've discussed so far. Hopefully that makes sense. If you have questions about that, I'll circle back. This is a good question. So, is the dummy model a standard model that all strategies are compared to, or is this specific to a strategy? This is for all strategies, especially all machine learning strategies, all for all machine learning strategies, even even non, even non financial applications should have a dummy model or a naive benchmark, right? Otherwise, again, How are you going to validate your models better than random, so dummy is buy and hold, it would be buy and hold relative to, okay, so this is actually kind of a nuanced question, right, because there's the actual investment strategy, and then there's the machine learning strategy, right. There's those two are often conflated, they're not always identical, so, but, but from a metaphorical idea, yes, the dummy would be buy and hold, right?

Speaker 1  37:48  
In traditional trading, discretionary trading, you might come up with a timing strategy, that's typically what people are doing, right? In discretionary trading, you're trying to time the market, so your baseline would be, well, what if I just bought and hold held instead of trying to time the market? Would my strategy beat that? Right, that's that's the discretionary equivalent in this case, the naive or dummy classifier is the machine learning equivalent of that, right? In this case, we're using, we're instead of using a, you know, maybe like technical analysis, or, you know, buying at a, you know, buying at a pullback to a moving average to time and entry, or something like that. We're using machine learning to make those decisions, so in that, in this case, we need to use a, we need to use a machine learning-based benchmark, and in this case, it would be the naive, or the dummy classifier. Yes, this um, so somebody asked me, so somebody asked me, does the strategy mainly focus on predicting up and down returns and ignore sizing and the quantities and things like that, yeah, those are very important aspects as well. Honestly, though, if I was to incorporate that into this, this would be like a whole day workshop, to be honest. So that, so yeah, we're mainly focused on the pipeline portion, setting up the pipeline, understanding why we put certain components in place, and then the sizing, the calibration of your predictions, things of that nature, that I'm leaving that for, for you guys. For future research on your own, or I'm sure that Quantity has follow-up content that addresses that exactly, but those are very important as well as you become more familiar and more capable using a machine learning pipeline, do Okay,

Speaker 1  40:31  
cool. So I think I think I got through most of the questions, like I said, I did see your return question. I'm gonna circle back to that, I Okay, so now we are looking at the walk forward validation framework. So this is this is talking about, let me see if I have an image here. Yeah, I do have the image. Okay, so why not a random split? Why can we not use random splits with financial data? Right, temporal dependencies, these temporal dependencies are critical. If we randomly spit split the data the way we would use in other machine learning applications, we run the risk of leaking future information to the past. I would say avoiding this issue is the most important part of machine learning development within in finance. This, this, this is probably one of the most common issues that you will find in papers the other one being like unrealistic executions, right, but before that it was this, so when I was first early in my career, I would read a lot of papers and I would try to replicate their results, and this is before I actually came across Marco Lopez, the Prado, who talks a lot about this in his research and in his books, but it was a lot of people applying at the time, you know, really successful machine learning techniques on finance, but not understanding that time series data has totally different assumptions and characteristics that make traditional machine learning techniques non viable, and it's because it would often leak information from the future into the past, and it would bias the predictions upwards, so it would make your model look like it really worked, and so people would try to deploy it, and it would immediately fail, and they say, "What, what happened? You know, everything that we did was, was right, you know, in terms of how we use or deploy machine learning in other, in other applications, but even before machine learning, academics made this error a lot, so very, very critical. So, why walk forward? It mimics, it mimics production. We train on the past and then predict the future. There's two types of walk forward. There's rolling a rolling window, which is this right, and then there's also one that doesn't, that doesn't throw away past data, so all of the data accumulates in this case. In most cases, typically you're going to want to use a fixed look back, because at some point the historical data is no longer relevant, and all it does is bias the model and increase the training time, so train on past, predict the future. We're using a standard rolling window, which means that the training size is consistent, it's the same size on every step, and then, and then we're introducing this concept called embargo. So, what does this do? So, this prevents label leakage in time series, right? Eight, and it purges overlapping labels from the training set, so I'll show this in the image. So, let's look at this image right here. So, if we look at split one, we can see, we can see the blue, which is the training set, we can see a tiny 1% gap in between the training set and the test set. Without that gap, there is a small amount of leakage of look ahead bias. Why is that? Well, because again we talked about the temporal dependence between data points and finance, so at the edge or at the end of the training set and at the beginning of the test set that those two data points at that split have a relationship, right?

Speaker 1  46:05  
They're related to each other, and sometimes our machine learning models can actually pick up on that and bias the results of our prediction, but the but the issue is because those are related and the model is able to pick up on it in practice we wouldn't actually have that information, so the model is training and using information that it would not actually have in production, so the way we overcome that is with this embargo, so all that, all that really means is we remove a small portion of the data at the at the split boundary at the training and the test plate boundary, we just drop a little bit of the data that makes it more robust, makes it more realistic, there's no leakage, and we're good to go. Let me check on these, see if there's any question. Uh, yeah, I do mean Marcos Lopez, the Prado. Okay, so before I move forward, does that make sense in terms of what Walk Forward is and why we use it, and also why we have this embargo, I I'm going to wait for some responses. This is a clear, very important concept that feeds on the rest of the material, so I spend the most time on this, because once we understand these components, then the rest becomes, you know, much more, much more automatic. Okay, cool. So, it looks like it looks like most people understand it. Okay, so, so we've talked about the, the, the training, we talked about the three splits: train, validation, and test. We've talked about the naive benchmark, right, the dummy classifier. We talked a little bit about choosing the horizons, right, the future horizon. And then we've discussed the walk forward splits, keep in mind this walk forward split right now is only applying to the training set, so we're still dealing with the training, the training data that I mentioned up here, right here, so within the training data we are going to implement walk forward, we're going to implement this walk forward validation. Okay, and what's next. Okay, next up we get, we need to talk a little bit about, okay, so we set up, or we've laid the groundwork for for the bit for the benchmark for the data splits and for the for the training process. Right, we're going to use walk forward validation at this point. We could swap in any model, right. We have the dummy. Classifier. Now we now we need to choose a model, we need to choose features, and we also need to choose how are we going to evaluate the success of the model, right? In the past, people were people used to use accuracy a lot right, and you can see that here, but I want to talk about it before you, you can read about it, but in the past accuracy was really common, but after you know research exploded, and Kaggle, and all that stuff. People realized accuracy was not a good metric at all, right? Can anybody guess why accuracy is not a good metric? Let me ask some of you, too. Also, who use machine learning in other applications, do you use accuracy as a metric? If you use accuracy, why or why not? Because of the data inbound imbalance. Yep, because market is random, not quite over fitting. Yeah, the biggest issue is the imbalance in data, right? This right here, this is the biggest problem with accuracy, and it took a little bit of time, but people adjusted pretty quickly. But if you have 70% of days that are up, the model will learn to predict up with relatively 70% accuracy, right? Or let's say this: if 70% of the days are up, 30% are down, the model will predict, or could predict up 100% of the time and still have 70% accuracy. Does that mean your model is good? Obviously not, right? Obviously not. So we need better, we need better metrics, especially in finance. The one that I use, and I think it's the easiest to interpret, especially because it's related to correlation coefficient, which most people are familiar with already.

Speaker 1  52:54  
This works really well in classification, and I think I think it actually might expand to multi multi class as well, so this is a binary prediction that we're making, right up or down, and I think the MCC might generalize to more than up and down, more than binary, but the idea is that this metric takes into account all of the, it takes into account class imbalances properly, it takes into account false positive, false negatives, true negatives, true positives. Right, so one would be perfect prediction point five strong predictive power, right? Around zero is random, or pretty close to random, and then the negative one would be perfect inverse, right? So, um so this maps pretty much exactly to our understanding of correlation, and so this is the primary metric we're going to be using throughout the rest of the lecture, and again, for your own, if you want to investigate it more, it's called the Matthews Correlation Coefficient, so so MCC properties again, the range negative one to plus one zero is random. It accounts for class imbalance, and it's using ML competitions in quantum research, so that's why we use it, and you can see verse accuracy, accuracy 70% but if the MCC is zero, is useless accuracy could be worse, but the MCC is point three, that's something that we could potentially deploy, right? So now we have our. Metric, we have the walk forward model. We have our training data. Now we can start to expand on this. So now we need to choose our model. As you can see at the bottom, we're going to use a light GBM gradient boosted machine, and we're going to add our first features. Let me make sure I'm not missing any questions. Nope. Okay, we're good. So we're going to, we're going to build our first proper model with walk forward validation. We're going to use three features only, right. Very, very simple to implement. It should be better than our naive baseline, which doesn't know anything about the data set itself, other than the class distribution, right. We talked about that. So, this will be the first one to see, okay? Does this outperform our benchmark? So we're going to use our yesterday's return, last week's return, and recent price volatility, right? Three features. Why start simple? It's easier to debug, it's easier to understand what the model learns, and we can establish an honest baseline, and we're going to go into this later when we talk more about the anti patterns, but all features have to use shift one to prevent look ahead bias, so here in the code again, the notebooks abstract some of the model building and stuff to make it easier, but the actual content has all this in detail for you to review, so we build our simple model that has these three features like we discussed, and then we run it through our walk forward validation pipeline. So keep in mind when we see this right here, this is running the walk forward validation that we established up here, right. This is what's happening in the background. We have our embargo, it tells us our training size, our test size, and then we have our cross validation complete. This is our MCC, and it gives us a distribution as well, so we can see our MCC is negative. So this is our simple model with proper walk forward validation, right? So it's negative again. This is real research. We're not often going to see success right away, right? I'm not cherry picking stuff for the, for the lecture, so it's negative. So, what does that tell us? It tells us the model is, is worse than random at this point. The dummy model is zero. The simple model is negative, so right now we know already that the simple model does not beat the classifier. So these three features on their own not only don't beat the dummy model classifier, they actually are actively hurting a potential strategy, so we have to do more. Let's see, this goes into the anti-patterns. Do we want to go into this now, or do we want to build? I think we should skip to the market short mark. We're going to go to this part first, and then we're going to circle back to the ante patterns. So we know that the simple model is terrible, right.

Speaker 1  59:21  
It's worse than the naive benchmark. So we need to see. Okay, so can we do better with using some domain knowledge, you know, some features that are specific to finance and trading to improve this model right. Can we, can we do better. So, in this case, I'm going to talk about why we switch to forward, or so we switched forward returns. I'm going to talk about why we do this, and it's. Second, but ignore that for now. We want to try to improve on our simple model that is negative, right? It doesn't do very well at all. So, what are what are our options? We have generic technical analysis, that's moving averages, RSI, stuff like that. These are typically widely known. Often they don't have edge. I'm not going to say that they don't have edge. I'm saying that their edge is context dependent, but they do lag price action. These features, these micro structure features, these were developed for, again, for actual market micro structure. Initially, that refers to, you know, very small or high frequency time scales, you know, one minute tick data, things like that, but we can also apply it to daily data. There, they are less commonly used. They're meant to capture market structure. These features, like I said, are less crowded, and they are trying to identify actual market structure things like liquidity impact and complexity, so the thesis is that these features should improve our results, right? We should be able to beat the baseline with this. I'm not guaranteeing that, but that's the idea, so let's see, so now we're going to add the microstructure features, so you can see those features here, I'm you want to learn more about those features, you can research them on your own. I'm not going to go too much into them. I'm sure everybody's familiar with Hearst. The Hearst exponent theoretically makes sense, but doesn't actually, in practice, it doesn't usually help so much, but um, her exponent right here, the the idea is that um, under point five is mean reverting H equal to point five is random walk greater than point five is trending, Kyle's Lambda. This is supposed to measure the impact of trades, so liquidity in the market, Amy Hood's Lambda, same thing is trying to measure price impact. This is a volatility measure, and then we have some other features that you guys can look at. This is a bid ask estimator and implicit spread information asymmetry complexity measure. Right, so does it actually improve? So we have 12 features, 3000 samples, three basic, nine micro structure, so so let's run it, so let's see. Okay, so the MCC improved over our simple model, but we're still not beating the naive benchmark, right. It's still, it's still negative. So, what have we learned thus far? We've learned that the naive benchmark is very useful because we've learned that right now none of our feature model, our feature and model combinations beat it yet, right? But we did learn that the micro structure features improved our previous model, so we have something to work with. Let's see, do I want to cover this or circle back. Okay, so this is the image of our of our results so far, right? So this is our our hierarchy. So we have our naive benchmark, we have our simple model, we have our simple model 10 day, and then we have our micro structure model, so we can see how much improvement adding those features did for our for our prediction model, but we're still not beating. Baseline, so we're going to have to continue with the feature engineering component in order to hopefully beat the baseline. Right now, I want to circle back and talk about the anti patterns, let me see, what are we doing for time. All right, so we're an hour in. So I went over a good amount of material. We still have to discuss the anti patterns and the horizons, we've covered the training split, validation split, test split, we've covered the naive baseline, we've covered walk forward validation, and we've covered a little bit of feature engineering, we've covered also the metric we're using to evaluate our models. Do you guys want to take a quick five minute break here before we get into the anti patterns, or do you want me to power through the anti patterns first?

Speaker 1  1:06:17  
I most people are saying break. Some people want to go power through. I think, I think, I think a break is warranted, let some of the things that we discussed kind of marinate that also give you an opportunity to think about questions or identify areas where you want me to review. So, take this five minute break now. Shred your legs. For those of you who have questions, send them to me. Yeah, for those of you who have questions, send them to me, and I'll answer them when people get back. I'm going to address this five day return label right now, so this, so in this case, right, you're asking about the five day mean return label, if day two has a bad crash, is averaging correct, so the question is, What are you trying to do with these returns, because if we're just labeling this for a machine learning model, then the magnitude of the return is not really important, right? In this case, what I'm demoing, we're just trying to predict if it's up or down, right? So, if it's up or down a lot, I mean, that's informative, and we would actually want to incorporate that into our understanding or into our model building process, but in this example it's not really relevant, if that makes sense, I Okay, so with that I'm gonna take a, I'm gonna take my five minute break here too, I'm All right. right, I am back. Audio good. Let me know. All right, cool, cool. Any questions before we get started? I'll talk about the the anti patterns that we need to be aware of,

Speaker 2  1:16:29  
and then we'll continue. I

Speaker 1  1:17:00  
One sec, I All right, I don't see any questions. Pretty sure everybody had a good five minutes, so I'll just get into it. So, let's get into the anti-pattern, very common using train test split on time series data. I think by default it shuffles data randomly, so as we discussed before, feature future data leaks into the training set model sees the future during training. Performance looks great in back test, and then we get failures in production, right. So this is an example of what it would look like. Training set has future data, and then we test it on the past, and let's see, with let's see the results right using the MCC, like we talked about. So, look, look, look, what happens if we were to do something like that. So we saw how before with the correct, with the correct application of our pipeline, right, using walk forward validation, using the correct splits, things of that nature, embargoing, it was still negative, even after adding useful features, it was still negative, but here this is the impact of future leakage, especially in this case, with random splits, the MCC is 0.089 so that's that's a massive improvement, and then, as we saw before, the correct approach, correct approach versus the simple model, remember simple models, negative negative point 09 Do we have a chart? Yeah, here we go. So, look at that, look at that inflation when we make a simple mistake. Of using shuffle data, randomly shuffled data, so just like we talked about, the random split destroys the order, walk forward preserves it, and we get much more, we get much more realistic results, right? Because in production, we never have future data, and walk forward mimics the production process. We train on the past, predict future, and then evaluate as we step into the future. Random split performance is a fan, is a fantasy, so never use random splits for time series. Andy, anti-pattern number two. This is a very, very subtle look-ahead bias. Some of my research in the past was biased this way as well, creating features without using shift one on rolling calculations, so initially the reason I didn't do this was because I thought that the rolling calculations did not include, did not include t, but it does, so you'll see what I'm talking about in a second, but so the future, the future at time t uses data from time t. This is the issue. Maybe some of you had already known this, but it's a very subtle bug. I'm sure you probably would see it in public published research. I see it a lot, so when you are using rolling features and you don't use shift one, the feature sees the period you're trying to predict. Let me see this, so for example I want to see if we have a better view of it, I guess not, so if we are doing like if we're doing, where's the rolling example, so we were using, say, this feature volatility at time t, and it was rolling right, it uses the returns from t minus t minus 19 all the way to t, it includes day t, the target at time t is the return from t to t plus 5t. is in both the feature and the target, right? So the model will learn that and make predictions based on it, and bias your results very, very subtle with shift on the feature. In this example, it goes from t t minus one into t minus 20, whereas the target is the return from T to T plus five, so there's no overlap with shift, so let's see the result. Real numbers, where's the chart? I so we can see that this is much more subtle, but it's still biased, right? In this case, it only inflated the MCC by 14% but that's still significant, right? And imagine that you have, you know, tons of rolling features, or you have a rolling feature that's actually effective. How much this could actually impact or bias your results, right? So, random split, don't do it. Um, rolling data must use shift shift one, so all rolling calculations must have shift one.

Speaker 1  1:24:32  
The exceptions are only when a feature is already explicitly lagged, and then the last anti pattern, this one is a little bit more nuanced, because there's a lot of different implementations of K fold, but let's talk about it, so this is the third anti pattern using K full cross validation with or without shuffle on time series data. Okay, so why is a critical error? K fold splits data into random folds, so fold one might use 2020 data, fold two uses 2015 data, so that's backwards in time, right? It also creates temporal disk discontinuities and data leakage, so the model can be trained on the feature on the future and then tested on the past. This was extremely common in academic papers and Kaggle competitions. I'm guessing by now this is not common. I would hope it's not common. It was really common, I so it looks good on leader boards, or it did it won competitions, but it failed catastrophically in production. Um, why it happens, K fold is the default in a lot of scikit learn tutorials, and it works great for non-temporal data, so for those of you who work with machine learning and other applications, you've probably seen how successful it is, but the reason it works in non-temporal context is because the data is IID or independent and identically distributed, so it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what the splits are. So, let's take a look at the impacts with real numbers. So, this is K fold without shuffle, K fold with shuffle, and then let's see what, what it looks like, so these are all the anti-patter, so this is the random split comparison, K fold, no shuffle, we can see that it definitely biased upwards, right, Homo, what's the percentage there, I K fold, no shuffle, 67% inflation, and K fold with K fold plus shuffle is 150% inflation, and so we can see in this image all of these are not honest, right? They're all all biased, the results either dramatically upwards or marginally upwards, but still enough to impact your results and conclusions, right? So the the idea is we don't want to use K fold naively or at all in time series result in time series predictions, so very, very important to understand how it was, so let me, let me back up. It's very, very important not to use this in your own research, but also if you're reading research of other people, you need to understand how did they validate their, their machine learning models in this context. If they use any of these anti-patterns, you got to throw it in the garbage, right? Does that make sense? Any questions there about these anti-patterns? Do they make sense? Right, so touch on them real quick again. Just to summarize the three that we went over: random split, which is a form of shuffling. Don't want to do that. Never do random splits. Rolling features without shift, don't ever want to do that, and we don't want to use K fold with or without shuffle. So those are the three things we need to avoid. If everybody understands that, then we'll keep going. If you have questions about it, we'll talk about it, but I think these charts are pretty self-explanatory. What did I want to get touch on? Alright, so we switched to 10 day horizon. I wanted to talk about that really quickly. Why did we change the horizon? This was basically to demonstrate the anti-patterns. They work much better, or they show more obviously with the five day returns in this example. So that's why I chose that, but. Where the actual feature development moving forward, 10 day was a little bit better to illustrate, so we switched to 10 day. It works better with the micro structure features. What else to check, so these are some hands-on things you can do on your own. I won't belabor this, but there, but within each notebook it has exercises for you to think about and crystallize the material that you can, you know, change, you can change these symbols directly within the notebook as well, and rerun it, and you can evaluate and answer these questions. So, I think that covers module one. So, we went over pretty much everything in module one. If you want some of their sources that we used, they're at the bottom, the books, Marcos.

Speaker 1  1:31:12  
This is one of the best books on it on this subject. It's a little bit dated now, but at the time it was state of the art, so let's get into module two. All right, cool. I don't see any questions. All right, feature explosion, the complexity paradox. So a lot of times the idea is that we have two competing ideas, model complexity and simplicity, and finance usually the idea is that we don't want to have more features than is necessary, because it makes the model more likely to over fit, which means it will perform worse out of sample, that's the idea. The truth is a lot more nuanced, and there's a couple of competing ideas that have to be considered. Excuse me, there's a couple of competing ideas that have to be considered to justify adding or removing features. One of them depends on your prediction horizon, for example, one of the extreme examples is high frequency trading. If you've actually read any of the literature on high frequency trading, like, legitimately high frequency trading, the models that they use are very, very simple, extremely simple, right? They, they are usually, you know, basic order book features that I mean, some of them don't work anymore because more people have access to tick data and things like that, or level one order book data, but overall they're usually just measuring liquidity in the limit order book, right? They're usually pretty simple and straightforward, whereas some of the more longer horizon models typically need more features relative to high frequency features, because they're taking advantage of different, different edges in the market, right? Or different, yeah, different opportunities. We'll say that. So, more or less features is really dependent on your prediction horizon as well, so we're going to, we're going to demonstrate that we're going to demonstrate throwing a lot of features at the model to see how the, how the model performs. We're going to try to reduce that as well, and see if it improves the model, but we're going to show overall that the model actually improves with or without lots of features, depending on what prediction horizon, and that this is actually another level of research that needs to be considered in your, in your pipeline, so in this case the hypothesis we're going to add 100 plus technical indicators, and let's see if it dramatically improves the MCC and. Then the idea is that this will demonstrate over fitting, right. We should, it should over fit and not perform very well. Well, let's see, we're using TA lib. These are all the features that we're going to add. They're all available from TA Lib, so nothing proprietary industry standard. Let's add these features now. We have we have 94 total features. We have our original features, which are the symbol features, our micro structure features, and now we've added 76 technical analysis indicators. Right, so let's see, how does this perform. We're going to prepare everything like we did before. We're going to use our walk forward validation, right. And then let's take a look, I'm curious, where it got this MCC from, but compared to the previous notebook, the full feature set improved the MCC dramatically, right. We went from negative, think it was negative zero point like 001 or 01 and we're not positive, so improved dramatically, which is interesting to say the least, right, and we can, we can assume that it was unlikely to be overfit because we used our walk forward validation, we have embargoing, we have proper splits, so this, this number is really insightful, so did we actually over fit? Let's see. Let's diagnose. Did it over fit full features beats the micro structure alone. Obviously, we see that horizon matters. Actually, I want to show this through the where's this, where's the image, um Where's this? I don't want to spend too much time on this. I think the image does a better job than the text itself. Let me find it. Okay, so this, this to me is way more important. So, this shows the MCC versus the prediction horizon versus the feature models that we use, right? The features, so we have the dummy baseline, right, is always zero, and that's because it doesn't know anything. We have our simple three feature, which is blue. We have our microstructure features, which is orange.

Speaker 1  1:38:34  
So this, I think, is actually microstructure plus simple. And then we have our full set, which includes everything, and that's green, and we can see the pattern already established that the longer our prediction horizon goes, the the more significant the performance is of the full feature set, right, the performance improved with more data, and again we're saying that is not overfit, it's not overfit, because we know that the splits are correct, right, we know that we set it up properly, right, we're not leaking data into the future, so this should generalize pretty well moving forward. Performance heat map, and then some, just some other other feature complexity versus optimal horizon. So this is the number of features relative to the maximum or the optimal horizon in days, so we can see that the full and the micro structure do best at the 30 day, let's see. Do I want to touch on any more on this? Nah, I think this is okay. So, the practical takeaway, so distilling all this down, because I don't want to, we can always come back to this, but this is not the most important part of the pipeline, so to distill this down, the idea was keeps feature simple to avoid overfitting, more features equals worse generalization and and you know, test it at whatever horizon the new thinking is, or what you should be thinking is we need to match our feature complexity to prediction horizon, and also test it at our deployment horizon, so if you, if you are trying to develop a strategy that works really well on 30 days, then you don't want to be testing a strategy relative to five day future, a five day return horizon, right? That doesn't make any sense, right? You want to make sure that your feature engineering process is aligned with your horizon, and you have to also analyze your horizon relative to your feature complexity to determine that as well. So I kind of high leveled that I is a good question. Was that already answered? I just saw the question. Yeah, so the TA answered that question. It was a good question. He has, he asked, for example, wait, can can students see the questions or not? I'm not sure, but if not, he asked, for example, with a horizon of 30 days, does that mean we only take one trading decision per month or one decision per day with a horizon of 30 days every time, in this example, the correct answer is typically it's one decision per day, each predicting the outcome over the next 30 days, so that was accurate. Okay, so this is actually going to change in the next edition of this lecture, but for now it's still valid. This is module three. This is a feature selection in this case we're using we're going to use Shapley as a metric, but what's more important, in my opinion, is the algorithm, the feature selection algorithm that we're going to use, and we're going to try to see if, if we can match or exceed the performance of our, of our full model, right, that uses all of the features, we're going to see if we can improve it and make it more parsimonious by using feature selection, so why Shapley, Shapley gives us a game theoretic understanding of the contribution of each feature to an overall prediction, so the way that I understand it, and I think it's the easiest way to understand it, is that if you were looking at a, like, a soccer match, right, football in the rest of the world, I'm American, so we call it soccer, but if you're looking at a football match and team A wins versus team B, you are trying to ascertain which players contributed most to the win, right, and how would you do that? How could you determine whether player one, player two, player three, what were their contributions to the overall winning of that of that match? Well, Shapley, I. Is a mathematical framework to determine that right, and these in these values give us a numerical, a numerical way to score the contribution of each player, so some players, for example, like really bad players, they actually hurt winning, right? They're negative. Other players contribute really strongly to winning, right. And so they'll have positive numbers. So, how does that apply to features?

Speaker 1  1:45:37  
Well, the outcome of the soccer match would be the target, and the individual players would be the features, and so Shapley tells us which features had the biggest impact on the prediction outcome. So, hopefully that makes sense to me. I think that is a pretty intuitive way to understand it without getting too much into the complexity of, you know, of the actual mathematics involved, and so what it does is it gives us a framework to explain the contributions of the features in our models, so this is helpful, especially in a team context, where you have to explain or try to explain how the model is making decisions right now. Again, it's not mandatory. You don't always have to have explainable models, but generally speaking, explainable models are easier to reason about, and they're easier to develop risk management strategies around. So, does that make sense? Any questions on that? Okay, so continuing with this, in this example, we use Shapley, but you can use other frameworks that help with model explainability. The idea is that you want the practical reality, like I said, is this typically easier to defend models, reason about models, and collaborate when there's explainability, when you can understand the feature impacts, but it doesn't always, it's, but it's not always required, it's just helpful, do Again, I think I actually think the the feature selection algorithm is the most important takeaway for this, and we're going to talk about that also. So, in this, in this module, the learning objective is we're going to understand the SHAP value calculation interpretation. We actually just covered that right now. We're going to run the Barutes SHAP feature selection algorithm. So I'm going to talk about what the Baroota algorithm actually is, the feature selection algorithm, and we can actually use other metrics besides SHAP to inform this. Then we're going to analyze the accepted and rejected features. We're going to interpret some SHAP importance for the top features, and then we're going to train a model with selected features, and then compare the performance of the selected versus the full features, so those are the learning objectives for this for this module. I see this question, but doesn't the good answer sound like hindsight bias? Good answer. So this is saying this is saying, why did your model buy Meta yesterday? And the good answer is, well, price volume oscillator momentum spiked confirmed by the, I mean, here's a liquidity, and the volume accumulation trending up. These three drivers together signal strong high pressure with low execution costs. Our model used statistically validated features from Baruch to SHAP and historical win rate for. The signal profile was 68% so is this hindsight bias? Yeah, it is a little bit, but the idea is that through the validation process, by the time you get to this point, these have already been validated in and out of sample, right. You're not going to like, you can't answer this detailed without already having gone, already have gone through this process, this development process. So, how would we even know that we should be using a price volume oscillator, or that Amaha's illiquidity measurement is valuable, right? It wouldn't, it wouldn't have made it this far had we not validated it already, but yes, it is hindsight, definitely right. You're trying to ascertain what contributed to this purchase, so we gotta look in the past while it was this, these three features drove this this model decision. Now maybe you're asking implicitly, will it does this generalize going forward, and then that's a different question, right? Will this always work? We don't know, but the historical win rate for this signal profile in this hypothetical with these with this hindsight bias is, is, is profitable in this case, I alright, so back to the learning objectives we already talked about the shop value calculation and interpretation. Let's talk about I'm trying to see if I actually talk about Baruta in this, I don't, so I'm gonna, oh yeah, we do, so let's go to this, all right, so let's, let's set the stage, so to speak. What is the problem we're solving for module two, we saw that we have around 80 to 90 features. The full feature set was an improvement over the micro structure, and we also learned that more features does not always equal better performance, but in some cases it does.

Speaker 1  1:52:38  
That's dependent on horizon, but ideally, ideally we want to create models that are parsimonious. So, what does that mean? That means we only want to utilize features, we want to have the minimum amount of features to generate the to generate the outcomes that we want, so for example, in this case, if we have 100 features and the MCC is 0.03 or say 0.3 just to keep it easy. 100 features, MCC at 0.3 We want to have the best model that can get to 0.3 with the least features, right? Because that's more efficient. So, the idea is, are there is there a subset of that of those 100 features that can actually match this performance? Can we get the same or better performance with 50 features, with 40 features, with 30 features? Right, that's the goal. Why do we want to reduce the features? It's easier to debug for one right when trades go wrong, or if the model is making decisions, it's easier to reason about. We can better identify which features and interactions drove specific decisions, and then there's the resource savings as well. Fewer features equals less to maintain and compute. Now, obviously, at multi billion dollar quant funds, that is less of a restriction, but it still is more efficient, right? If, if, if you can, you know, generate the same amount of profit with less investment, why wouldn't you do that, right? It's the same thing, it's the same thing here, if we can generate the. Same amount of performance with less features. Why do we need more features? We don't, so we're so that's what we're ideally trying to solve. Can we get the same or better performance with less features? And so that's the, that's the entire idea behind feature selection algorithms. So we're going to, we're going to use a feature selection algorithm called Baroota to statistically test which features beat random noise, and we're going to see if the reduced feature set is actually better, so this is the setup, um, let's see, so in the more traditional or historical, historically, most of the feature selection algorithms were correlation based, so these are univariate, and they would measure how well each feature independent independently ranks in terms of correlation with the target, and then you would rank it, and then select the top k features by score, right? So that could be correlation, that could be mutual information, that could be chi squared. It's fast, it's simple to understand, and it works with any model type, right? Those are the pros. The cons is it misses a lot of feature interactions, right, because the features are tested independently, right. You're looking at, for example, you're looking at the correlation of the one feature at a time versus the versus the the target. There's no model aware selection, so it doesn't consider how the model uses features. It's limited explainability. This is more talking about the metric, which in this case would be SHAP. So it just is correlation scores, not not contribution, and it ignores redundancy, so it might select correlated features, so what does that mean? That means the top k features might all be correlated with each other, which is actually for most models not a good thing, and then we implement it, select k best, this is a default feature selection algorithm from Psychic Learn, and it would just pick the top 20, the modern standard, or what I'll consider the best framework that I've come across so far in terms of efficiency, as well as utility, is the Barutes algorithm, and in this case combined with the SHAP importance metric. So, how does it work? So, this is the key part. So, what the Berwick algorithm does is it individually create, or it creates shadow features. So, what does that mean?

Speaker 1  1:58:32  
So, it takes one feature and it shuffles it to permute it randomly, creates a noise feature called the shadow feature, and then it runs the model, and then evaluates, or excuse me, it runs the model multiple times, right, for statistical rigor, so it compares the feature versus its noise versus its noise companion versus its shadow, right, and it repeats that a certain number of times, and then it calculates the statistical likelihood that the real feature outperforms the shadow feature, and it does that within the context of the actual model, so we get to see how these interactions, or it actually incorporates the interactions as well, so if the shadow, for example, dominates most trials, then that tells us that this feature is actually not impacting the the results very well, like it's not very, it's not significant, so we can reject that feature now. Now it takes a an importance measure that we are using to rank these versus each other, right. In this case, we're using the Shapley value, but you can also use the permutation metric, you can also use the importance metric that comes default with the with the model with the tree models, for example, like we're using light gbm, so it has a default importance metric, you can use that as well, but to me what's really important is the the algorithm itself, so the pros is explainable. The shop values give you the contribution, it's model aware, so it considers how the model actually uses features, right? Because it's using your prediction model within this context, so to rank your features versus the noise features. It also captures interactions, we get statistical rigor, so it incorporates p value testing is deterministic. it's pretty fast with tree models. Well, that also depends on your hardware, but it's pretty fast, and this one works with Numpy two point 2.0 plus the cons. It's pretty computationally intensive for big data sets, and for efficiency, you're usually going to be stuck using tree-based models. You can use others, but it's just not. Is it going to be slower? I'm so correlation, so correlation explainability in a model and model awareness select k best, which is correlation based, uses features with the highest correlation. Why these features, these features have the highest individual correlation with a target, but it ignores how light GBM actually uses them together, right? Because it's not making predictions, it's just looking at a statistic, a statistical metric, whereas the Baruch, the shop will say, why these features we get, we get the contribution metric, which is Shapley, in combination with the light GBM decision tree, or excuse me, this is the gradient boosted model, and it's statistically significant. So, why? Because it's using the actual model and the features to make predictions, and then we're looking at the contribution of those of those features to the predictions, so we get a much more accurate look at how these features interact with the model and the prediction all Okay, so now before we look at the actual results, let me, let me ask, are there any questions about that, the high level, like why we're using the Barutes algorithm, why it's better than simple correlation based select k best or any questions about the Shapley metric, I know we're getting into a little bit more complex discussions here, so I want to make sure I don't assume that people understand what I'm saying or understand how it works without, you know, without asking. So, what does Shap measure, Shapley measures the contribution of a feature towards the prediction, so if that was, you know, back to back to the sports example, it would, it will be the equivalent of measuring how much does an individual player impact the win loss result of a particular match. Okay, cool, do. Any other questions about the Barute algorithm, or how it works?

Speaker 1  2:05:03  
Again, the high-level overview, if you take anything away from it, is that it uses it compares real features versus their noise feature equivalent within the prediction context and gives us a statistical measurement of whether or not this feature is actually better or outperforming the noise equivalent, and it has three levels of classification, whether, so the feature can be accepted, it can be tentative, meaning that the the algorithm was unable to classify it as accepted or rejected, and so it needs more samples, and then rejected, meaning that the noise features that it didn't, it didn't outperform the noise features. In this case, we're going to run it. It takes a long time on my machine, so I don't know how it would do on yours. We want it to be the 95th percentile of shadows. We're going to run 100 trials, so it's going to run versus its shadow feature 100 times, and see if it can dominate and be accepted or rejected, so the results in this case, after running it, only 18 features were accepted, it rejected 70 features, so what does that say? It said that most of the features did not outperform their noise or their shadow features, their noise equivalent. So, theoretically, we should be able to remove them and still maintain a similar or better performance, and so we're going to see this portion goes more into how to interpret Shapley on your own, but I think we, I think we covered it enough, and what it actually means, but there are some exercises for you to build that intuition. So, these are the top 20 features by Shab importance. Let me make sure that this is from the selected or this accepted one sec, yeah, so these are the accepted, so these are the top features that were accepted, and so we can see that a lot of them were the top three were actually the micro structure features, which I find to be interesting. So, liquidity-based measures were definitively better than their noise equivalent. Now, does that mean that the model is going to perform better with just these selections, we're going to find out, so these are the top features by Shap that were accepted, and then there I think these are their absolute Shap values, I these are some hands-on exercises for you to do on your own, and some discussions. Here we can circle back to these if you want later, if we have time. We're actually moving at a pretty good pace, so let's build it. So now we've run the algorithm with the Shapley features, or excuse me, with the Shap importance, and we're going to compare our more parsimonious algorithm versus the full model, and see, does it? Does the feature reduction help or hurt? So, here are the results. So, we have our bench. Arc, which is the naive, which is zero. We have our 10 day micro structure, which was in this case it was positive, but basically zero, so not very informative. Our full feature set was much better than either of them, and we can see that in this case the parsimonious model with the shap selected features actually outperformed, so in this case we were able to capture all of the benefits of feature selection, right, because we talked about it before. If you're able to meet or exceed the performance of the full feature set with less features, we, we give better explainability to the model, better and easier maintenance, easier compute and resource management, right? So we get efficiency improvements overall, and in this case we also get better performance. It not only matched it, but it almost doubled the performance. So to me, that's a pretty significant finding in this example. Now, this is not always the case, right? This is just part of the research pipeline, but in most cases, this should help. You should be able to meet or exceed with these with the more streamlined model. Let me see if there's anything to take away, so in other versions the shaft selected features, so I've run this a few times because I'm trying to remember if I had a random seed. In some cases the shop selected only met the equivalent performance, but in others it beat the performance. In most cases, it beat the performance, so I left that there, but in some cases it doesn't.

Speaker 1  2:12:25  
So this is why you have to test sometimes the selection algorithms throw away features that look like noise, but actually, when combined together, capture interactions that are very nonlinear or difficult to explain, so that's that's a little bit of the nuance, it's not black and white, it doesn't lend itself easily to it's always this or always that, but again, this is part of the real professional research process. Sometimes you get results that don't make sense, or other times you get results that are more in line with your expectations, and that's fine. Other times it is, it surprises you, right, but in most cases you should get this type of result where you, where the parsimonious model is able to match the performance of the full featured model, so what else is there? I'm trying to look to see if there's anything else I want to touch on when similar models win, despite similar performance generalization, in sample performance may not predict out of sample shabd features, might be more robust on validation set. We'll see production constraints again, efficiency matters, latency matters, and in this case, we got all the benefits, so I don't want to belabor the point, but we went through a pretty rigorous, or I showed you a pretty rigorous in what I considered it being professional level workflow for feature selection, so for me, if you were to ask me, would I use K Best or anything like that, maybe as an initial filter, but I don't use it currently, and the model. That I deploy or the systems that I deploy for my clients, I don't use it now. These are the open questions that we're going to answer in module four. How do these models compare on held out data? Right, so remember we did all this up till now with just the training data, right? So we were able to learn a lot just with the training data. So now we have our validation data. Other questions, would this? Does this work with other symbols? Would this work with, like, so in this, in this lecture, we're using the financial ETF for US equities, XLF, but would it work for tech, you know, a tech ETF, would it work for a healthcare ETF, would it work for a total market ETF, would it work for individual equities, right? Like, there's a lot we can do in terms of researching how stable is this model across different assets. Another question that needs to be answered, how do these models perform in different market regimes? So we looked at this model in totality, but this is another level of research that you would add into your pipeline, but we don't cover it in detail here, because again it would just explode the length of this lecture competition. computational cost, do the fewer features actually reduce the latency, latency significantly? If you were actually going to deploy a model live, these are like the technical implementation details you would have to review, but we're going to look at some of these in module four. So now before we go to module four, let me see if there are any questions. Are there any questions on what we covered? I I don't see any questions, so everybody feels pretty comfortable with the idea of feature selection. They feel comfortable understanding a little bit about the Shapley importance metric, and what it measures. No questions there. Don't be shy. All right, no questions there. Let's see, we are burning through time. This is actually pretty straightforward, Tessa. Okay, so we're going to take a.. I think we're going to take a quick break, because we just did another hour, we got about 40 minutes left. The last bit of this is actually pretty straightforward, and it's much quicker to go through. So, let's make this break about three minutes, so we'll come back at 11. We'll come back at for me is 1122 so think about what we covered. If you have any questions, send those through. Shut your legs. I'll be back in three minutes. all right, I'm back, so we'll get into, so we're going to get into how to use the validation set, and then we're going to finally test it out of sample, and then we'll wrap it up by demonstrating a actual back test.

Speaker 1  2:22:32  
So, typically you want to do your back test after you have validated your, your model through this this pipeline. Okay, cool. I didn't see any questions, so I'm going to blast through. I'll stay a little bit later if people have questions at the end or want to ask me any questions. All right, so let's get through, let's get to it. So, hyper parameter tuning on the validation set. So, everything we did was within the context of the training set. Now we're going to understand the difference between the validation and test test sets. The goal is to learn a systematic hyper hyper parameter tuning workflow. Again, we're going to let the frameworks do a lot of the work for us here, but the goal is to understand the purpose of the validation set and how we can, how we can implement that for our in our pipeline, so the validation set can be iterated on multiple times, but at this point we are no longer doing any more feature engineering, right? So that's that part should be done. You don't want to be doing feature engineering in the validation set. We already did that in the training set, and remember that within that training set we used walk forward analysis or walk forward validation, so within that we were doing validation on our feature engineering, so the feature engineering component should be done at the point that you move on to the validation set in most cases, and from here we're going to select the optimal model configuration based on the validation performance. So, again, key concepts - this is used for hyper parameter tuning, whereas the test set, which is in the next module is a one time final evaluation. There are there are a couple of different ways that we can, we can do this. There's grid search, and then there is a more efficient or intelligent way we can search. For the optimal hyper parameters, and then just to clarify, when I use the term hyper parameters, if you're not familiar, that refers to the parameters of the model itself, right, XG Boost, Light GBM, Random forest, any other model, they have their own parameters that have nothing to do with the features or what you're trying to, trying to predict, right? Like they're they're knobs to tune certain aspects of the model itself, right? Everybody understand that I Oh, I just see that somebody asked that question. Did I answer your question? Okay, cool. And the optimization is again based on the MCC, so we're going to select the best model based on MCC. You can use other metrics as well, but we're going to keep it consistent. We already discussed the three way split. We are here at the validation, so we did walk forwards cross validation on the training set, so that's internal feature development and internal validation. So this, so the other thing that was also done in the with the training set before we get here, so when we are in the validation set, we are no longer choosing the the features and we're no longer choosing the model, we've already chosen the model, right, so we want to make sure I want to make sure that it's very clear. At this point, we are no longer choosing those things that should have already been settled. We have our features and we have the model. If you weren't sure about which type of model, you need to go back to the training set and test your features with different, you know, different models. Maybe you don't like light GBM, maybe you want to try with XG Boost, maybe you want to try with a neural network, you know, maybe you want to try with hell, sorry, maybe you want to try with a.. I don't know why I keep thinking of support vector machines, but you get the point that needs to be done in the training set, so we're on validation set. This is specifically for hyper parameter tuning before we test on our holdout set. So we just talked about that. So let's get to it. We're going to load it up. Note that this is different data again. This is not the training data, it's not the test data. So we're going to use the same horizon in the same pipeline as we did in module one.

Speaker 1  2:27:58  
So this is also the benefit of pipelines, right? We don't have to redo everything all the time. We can reuse components, so this makes it a lot easier to do this research process and to iterate on it over and over again. We are using the same features as training, we're using the shop selected features, right? 18 features here. So, there are the common way that people would do this would be grid search. I didn't even include it in this, because grid search usually takes way too long. It searches every combination, whereas with Optuna it allows us to intelligently sample the parameter space, so it starts by exploring randomly, and then using the information from the random exploration, it samples more in the promising regions of these parameters, and then that is much more efficient. We can get much better results from way less time, right? Grid search can take hours. Random search can take hours. Optuna is usually much shorter. It says two to four hours. It just depends. This is an industry standard as well. Optuna is very well used and maintained. I'm not going to even talk about the algorithm when I have enough time, and it's not really that important, but this is the algorithm that it used. You can, you can do more research on it. Let's get. Do it, so in this case we have our CV. We need to define our objectives and our sample spaces. So in this case, we're going to keep it relatively simple. These are the main drivers of performance for light GBM models, or in most or tree models in general, so how many? How many decision trees, or how many iterations in this case, because it's a gradient boosted model. What's the tree depth? And then how many samples? How many child samples we're going to feed that into it, and this is the metric we're trying to optimize. We set up the study, we're going to run it for 100 trials. That's usually the heuristic that I heard. We actually don't need 100 but what I heard is typically you want somewhere between nine times and 15 times the number of parameters in terms of trials, so if you only had one, so for example, if you only had one parameter, hyper parameter to optimize, then you would want to run at least nine to 15 trials. If you had two, you want to do 18 to 30, right? Does that make sense? So then we run it, run it, run it. So this is all the output from the individual trials. Let's skip that. Let's analyze the results. We'll sort by the validation MCC. You can consider F score as a secondary metric, and then we also look for stability, so we can see maximum performance for the validation set was 46 iterations, a max depth of six in the min shut min child samples was nine, we can see that max depth was it converged right, right around six. Same thing with the min child samples, around nine. The number of iterations were a little bit more diverse, but it looks like it was converging between 30 and 50, so now we can look at the optimization history, and then we're going to look at the distribution of trial performance as well, but now we have our hyper parameters, so what we're going to do is retrain on the, we're going to retrain our model using the hyper parameters from the Optuna search, not grid search, this is a typo, we're going to train on this and then use it out of sample on the validation set, so here's the fit best model right here. Verify on the validation set, so let's see. So the MCC was point oh one nine, so it was slightly positive. Me personally, again, I would want to compare this with the naive baseline. I didn't do that here. I leave that as an exercise for you guys, but you already understand the building blocks, so just looking at this in isolation doesn't do much for us. We would want to see how it compares to the naive baseline, but we can see the results, the best CV and sample versus the validation MCC.

Speaker 1  2:34:19  
One thing to keep in mind too this trained on all of the training data and then predicted on all of the all of the validation data so I wouldn't necessarily do this in practice. I would still use walk forward validation, even in the validation phase, but this was just done for simplicity of teaching, so. We can see the confusion matrix, it tended to predict down a lot with, and it didn't really discriminate very well with that, so that would be something to research in tune before we would actually run this on out of on our holdout set, so basically right now, if I was to, if I was to make a decision, I would actually circle back and leave the holdout set, because this performance to me is not good enough. The MCC is not good enough, and it doesn't discriminate enough. It predicts down too much, so it's, it's, it's missing something. However, for teaching, we can continue. So, what do we do? We loaded the validation set, which was different. We ran the same, the same pipeline, created the same horizon, the same target horizon. We set up the same features using the same pipeline. We used Optuna for intelligent hyper parameter search. We found the best parameters, quote unquote, for the validation set, and then we use it to make a prediction on the, excuse me, we came up with the best hyper parameters, and then we trained with those hyper parameters on the training set, the entire training set, and then made a prediction for the entire validation set. There's going to clarify that anything else to go over. Nope. So let's do that. So let's skip any questions there before we move on to the test set evaluation? Everybody, yeah. F is too low, exactly. F is too low. MCC is too low. It doesn't discriminate well enough in the, in the, in this validation set now the question I would have is if I was to run that run the walk forward pipeline with the hyper the best hyper parameters, how would the performance, how would, how would the how would it have performed on the validation set, that part is what I would do in practice, but I'm actually curious about it. So, like I said, I leave that as an exercise for you guys. This question here, do is TPE sampler multivariate equal to true? Is it better? I actually haven't tested that, so I'll leave that for you to explore. Um, usually I find that most of the value that I get from my models is usually done before I get to the hyper parameter search, so I haven't, I haven't focused too much on all of the different options in terms of the hyper parameter algorithms I but that is a good question, all right. So now we're getting to the final boss of this. So now test that evaluation again. This is only for teaching. We already discussed that based on the validation set, we, the current state of the model is not good enough to use our holdout set right again. Our holdout set is so precious, we only want to use it one time, so if we already see this much degradation and the validation set we should actually start over, but for the teaching purposes we're going to actually test it out of out of sample on the holdout set, so the one time test principle, so because of the training set we're iterating over so many different times, it's a really high risk of overfitting. The validation set is is a much lower risk of overfitting, because we've already made most of the decisions at that point, we've. Already chosen our feature set, we've already chosen what model we want to use, so the risk of overfitting has decreased with the validation set. With the test set, there's no risk of over fitting because the model's never seen it, and it won't see it again, right? Or it should not be seen again, so this is the most honest estimate of what we can expect from our pipeline, our ML pipeline out of sample. So the rule is we never want to retune the model, we don't ever want to peek at the test during development, and we don't want to iterate on test performance, right? So I think I think that's clear. I don't want to belabor that.

Speaker 1  2:40:52  
I just saw this question. Let me make sure it was answered, so that question was answered properly. We talked about why it matters. Peaking contaminates the test set, test becomes part of training, it loses objectivity, and then you don't have a remaining guard against overfitting. So this is not totally true. There's other ways we can validate, but it's just best practice. You don't want to do it, you um, so this is talking about the threshold for degradation, because we would expect that there would be some level of performance drop off from training to validation and from validation to test. There's no defined metric that says, oh, if this drop off is this much percent, then we, you know, it's not worth moving forward. That's going to be context dependent. In this case, we're just going to say 20% Hold on one second. I have a helicopter flying over. Okay, so again, there's no industry standard, it's context dependent, so keep that in mind. But for just for teaching sake, we're going to say 20% drop off is too much, so let's see how it performs. So we're going to load the the tune model, right? We already have, we have everything saved, so that's another thing kind of didn't really touch on because that's more about infrastructure, but you want to set up your research pipeline in a way that allows you to review, query, and reuse different parts of the pipeline without cross contamination risk, so I'll leave it at that. That is, that's a whole, that's a whole other sub topic within this within this pipeline, but anyways, I won't go over it too much, but we're going to load up our tune model data, our hyper parameters, and our selected features. Here are the previous performance results. Now we're going to retrain on all of the pre test data, so remember we only use the in this example, we only use walk forward in the training set for the validation and the test set we're doing what is typically taught but not always used, where you retrain on all of the previous data, and then predict for your auto sample data. Let's see, so this is our combined data set. It's ready, 4400 samples, 18 features. Retrain it, make our prediction. We have about seven years of unseen data. Create our target variable again. All of this stuff we've already done multiple times. We set up our pipeline to make it easy to do. Two, apply the feature engineering, and let's see what the results are. So, the MCC is negative, as we would expect. So, we can look at the comparison on, do I have a plot for this? No, but we have a better looking table, so we can see that the MCC degraded all the way through, which is a very common.. we would expect that, but the amount of degradation is what is key, so for example, training the validation, like I said before, this amount of drop off is usually too much, way too much. So to see it drop to basically zero is expected, right? No better than the naive classifier in the beginning, so this would say that research validation has failed, hyper parameter tuning has failed, so we would have to start all the way over with our feature engineering and model selection, and ideally we would have to get a different holdout set if possible, but again, just for fun, we're going to continue with the vectorized back test and see how it would have performed had we actually committed hypothetical capital to the strategy, it looks like in this case it would have generated a small return over the entire period, but given the max drawdown and likely volatility, this is just a random outcome again, very close to zero, so let's, let's assume that we actually got good results. If we, if we got good results at this point in time, we would want to validate the strategy with a more robust simulation of a performance.

Speaker 1  2:47:28  
Right, this is when we would want to evaluate the actual constraints of the strategy versus versus the market, right, hypothetical, hypothetically, so we would have to convert the predictions into actual positions, we would have to include commissions, a slippage model, things like that, cash, and determine after that, does this, does the performance still hold up, and if it does, then that's when we would look to deploy it live, whether that would be forward testing or a small amount of test capital, so let's move forward, in this case, I give you an example with Backtrader, so I use Back Trader because it doesn't require any dependencies. You don't need to be logged in to the internet to use it, and it follows, for the most part, it follows best practices. It's been used for many, many years. I think it's still being maintained even till today, and, like the name suggests, is event driven, so it does, it does a much by default, it limits the possibility of, of look ahead bias. Sorry, so we don't have to go over the code. We don't really have enough time either. I want to leave enough time for you guys to ask questions about things that you might be interested in, but this basically compares the vectorized back test approach versus event driven, and again, these are the weaknesses of it. It assumes you can execute at a close price, that doesn't happen, it ignores bid ask spread, no commission modeling, can't handle partial fills or rejected orders, and there's look ahead bias risk, whereas event driven it's only called once per bar, and we set it up so that it calculates our feature. Years in real time, right? Or excuse me, at every step. In this case, we're using a long only signal, I think, which is just by if we get a - if we get a prediction above 50% so we would expect degradation even between these two different back testing methods, obviously this is the code showing you how to set it up, and then again we're calculating and doing the same thing that we did in our pipeline, except we're adapting it for a, we're adapting it for a event driven back testing framework, so you could also deploy this as well with Quan Instities platform Blue Shift, I believe, yeah, Blue Shift is also event event driven. If I'm, if I'm correct, if I'm quoting that wrong, somebody can let me know from the team. So, again, this is all the code, it's long only, so if we get a bearish or neutral predict prediction, we just close the position. Execution costs, commission point 1% per trade. Initial cash is 100k Let's run it, and nobody should be surprised at the final portfolio value being negative. Let's see anything worth evaluating further. Yeah, total return negative 16% sharp ratio negative, max draw down negative, so why did I even show that I wanted to show the entire pipeline from start to finish for teaching purposes, but also to let you know that bad results are common and expected, and that you should not shy away from investigating your failed experiments, or if you're reading research and somebody presents results that are not impressive, that you don't immediately throw away what they've done, and instead evaluate what you can learn from from what they've, what they, what they've done, and the, the research. Negative results provide information as well. So this is not cherry picked, this is real. This is the process that I go through, my clients go through, everybody goes through. So, with that said, that's pretty much everything I wanted to cover in the lecture. Some, some things, there's a lot more detail in the notebooks for review. There, there are there are also practice questions available for you to do as well.

Speaker 1  2:53:34  
Each notebook has next steps or optional things for you to experiment with as well, so I encourage you to build your intuition and skills in this in this application by working through the notebooks on your own or going straight to the the checkpoints and seeing how much you can remember or how much you can do on your own, so now with five minutes left I'm going to leave the floor open, so any questions you have about any part of the process, let me know, and I'll answer them while people are still here. So, what type of real use case of machine learning and trading, especially features and options, can you please suggest I so for example we can use machine learning for regime classification, that's a big, a big, a big use case, that's the use case. I use the most on my own, actually, because again, what you'll learn is that when you test enough strategies and read enough research, what you'll learn is that most strategies work under certain conditions, right? They're like, basically, there is no one strategy that always works, and so then it becomes an exercise, kind of like Tetris, where you want to match your strategy to the correct market environment, so even if you only have one strategy, it still pays to understand or be able to predict better than random what regime you're in, and if that regime is favorable to your strategy or not. That's one use case in terms of options, options are usually governed by volatility. Volatility is much more predictable than the returns of assets, so ML is going to be much more useful in applications like that. You can use machine learning in terms of meta learning, so say for example you already have a strategy or a model that works and you want to improve the quality of that model, you can, you can train a meta model that looks at your trading results, and then makes classifications or predictions about which, which trade is likely to win or lose based on context, whatever context you feed it. Those are just some examples I can think of off the top of the top of my mind. How to identify the market regime using machine learning, one, so the typical idea is that you would look at a historical set of data and whatever tool or heuristic you use, you will classify that historical data set into regimes. Once you classify it into regimes, then you can use that as a target in a supervised model if you're trying to predict regimes directly. Otherwise, what you can do is use the regime classification that you chosen as a feature in the model itself, and then the model itself can be predicting something else. Hidden Markov model, yeah, that's the standard go-to for regime modeling. It's not the only, but it's a good starting point. Let me see these other questions. So, yeah, so ideas to research moving forward, like I said, my current - the current research that I'm doing the most on is regimes, that's what I'm focused on the most right now, but again, you can, you can, you can apply this to magnitude research, but if you want to apply it to something that we know we can actually predict with relative consistency, then I would look at all of, I would look at volatility based applications, but just keep in mind that because it's predictable that the market participants are also able to predict that, so what you would then have to do is evaluate your predictions versus the market predictions and see if there is edge, there are your predictions better than theirs, or when your predictions diverge from the market, is that a signal, and is that signal to, you know, buy or to sell, or to, or to exit the market, for example, do. Do market regimes make a difference in options trading? Of course, right? Because market regimes are typically going to be governed primarily by volatility, or volatility is going to play a big component in how you classify a regime, right? So I will leave you with this question, right? Are all bull markets the same, or all bearish markets the same, or all ranging markets the same? And if they're not the same, what's different about them, right?

Speaker 1  3:00:40  
Can you have a high volatility bull market in certain, in certain cases? Can you have a high volatility ranging market in some cases? Can you have a low volatility ranging market, and you know, does that apply to bearish cases as well, so again, with option trading being driven primarily through volatility, or volatility being the number one pricing mechanism, I would find it to be pretty useful to do accurate, or you know, good regime classification, if not predicting the regimes themselves, which can be pretty difficult, using them as a input into your decision making process, into your machine learning pipeline, into your feature sets, things like that, and then evaluating whether or not that impacts your results. Okay, so we've covered pretty much everything I wanted to cover. The lecture time is over, so just to reiterate real briefly what we went through. Let's see if we cut what we covered. If we got through the key concepts, where is this course overview? I I think that was the course overview, so we covered, we covered interpretability, right, but what really, what we covered that I consider most important, we covered the train test, the train validation test splits, right. We covered walk forward validation, while that's the typical gold standard,

Speaker 2  3:02:50  
and we

Speaker 1  3:02:51  
covered the anti patterns, which is huge, because you can't, if you have those issues in your pipeline, you cannot trust your results. We covered hyper parameter tuning. What else did we cover? Oh, we covered feature selection using Barutesa and Shapley. I consider the out the barouza algorithm to be more important than the Shapley importance measure, and I'm going to just, I'm going to update this lecture in the future to reflect that. And then we finally covered event-driven back testing, we use real market data, and yeah, I think we got through most of the material. So, I want to thank the people who stayed until the end. I think most people stayed for the majority of the lecture and got the meat of it, which is good for those of you that stayed till the end. I appreciate your time and energy, and your focus. For those who were asking very poignant questions. Thank you for those questions. It helps me stay on task. And if you had questions, I was always taught that if I had a question, there was usually four, four, or five people that had the same question but just didn't ask it. So, thank you for that, and with that said, if you have any questions, you can send those to Quant Instity. If you have any questions for me directly, you can find me on my email, BCR at Black arbs.com or send it to Quant Instity directly, and then they'll forward it to me, and thanks to Quant NC for facilitating another great lecture. Hopefully, it was of value to you guys. If not, I'll take a look at your feedback and improve the lecture for the next round. Thanks again for those of you. Where it's nighttime, have a great night. For those of you, it's morning. Enjoy the rest of your day. Thanks.

Unknown Speaker  3:05:05  
Bye.

