Speaker 1  0:09  
Hi everyone. Welcome to the session five of options, which is hedging and trade recognition, before we move forward. Can you guys confirm if my screen is visible and my audio is clear, then just type it out in the chat.

Speaker 1  0:30  
Hey zubani, thank you. Thanks for the confirmation. Let me start the lecture. Just let me go to what we are planning to discuss in this particular session. Before we go that, let me give you a quick review of what we discussed in the last four lectures. Essentially in lecture one and two, you had an introduction to options and a peek into how an options trader thinks like but when we went to OTS three, we focused more on what goes behind pricing of an option, because essentially, when you're dealing with options, you're dealing with premium. So we discussed, why is there a premium? We draw a parallel to incidence industry in the premium we pay for incidence products. And we discussed, what are all the various factors that influences the premium, be it volatility, be it the underlying price, and also time to expiry, interest costs, etc. Then we went deep into volatility trading. And how do we, in fact, how do we structure a volatility trade? And also, how do you measure volatility and forecast it? These were the talking points in OTS four. Now we go more deep into practical aspects of what we learned so far. So we'll start this lecture by understanding what happens when you hedge like in practice. How do you hedge? Then we understand what are all the issues with continuous hedging? How do you go about volatility trading, and what is the optimal way to do it, because hedging attracts lots of costs. So how do we do it? So we discuss certain mathematical approximation methods that helps us to hedge responsibly with less impact on cost. Right? Then we discuss on different ways to close a position, as you know, even in introduction, we discussed even in this class, also, we'll take an example on how do you close your positions, and with that in mind, let's take an example and plan a trade. We'll take a case study. We'll plan the trade. And obviously, when you're planning a trade, you would have your expectations of a risk and reward. But now we will chalk out those, pull in some numbers of what our expectations are. And after the trade, will compare our numbers. We'll see what happened in reality, and what did we expect with that? We will draw some risk measures, because essentially, having a risk measure is first defining the risk. So we'll see how we define the risk, and also, how do we understand how our strategy worked? Right? It's not only about a single metric. We'll see a holistic view. And essentially this lecture will summarize all the steps you're going to take for volatility trading. So we'll chalk out a process in this very lecture. I'll also give you a look into the in class exercise, which tells you how to programmatically calculate clicks. So this is the idea for OTS five. So let's move ahead. Essentially, when we are talking about volatility trading, we generally start with hedging, even not just volatility trade, any kind of options trade we talk we start by giving an idea of hedge, because that's the whole reason why we have derivative markets? The primary reason why we have derivative markets are to maintain hedge because if you have a long position, and if you don't want to see extreme losses due to certain kind of a market crash, and start hedging so but then how it is related to volatility trade? I'll give a bit of a recap into what was the logic we discussed the last time. So we want to do volatility trading. So this is where we started discussing, when you're trading volatility What is the main source of alpha for you? If you had to put it in another way, if you are doing volatility trading. Where does your profit comes from? It comes from volatility. I know it sounds obvious, but similarly, when you have a momentum trade, you basically want momentum to drive your profits. If you have a mean reversion trade, you want mean division characteristic of the stock to. Drive your profits, right? But when it comes to options, as we discussed in OTS three, there are many reasons why a premium would change, but now we want to capture premium by the function of volatility. So if I had to list down, volatility, of course, is what drives. Let me just write down

Speaker 1  5:26  
premium drivers. So volatility is one, then underlying price. I would say these are the major premium drivers. I must say major premium drivers. So if you want to capture change in premium due to volatility, you need to mask the impact of underlying price on the premium. If you are able to cancel this out and properly model volatility, then you can confidently go ahead and say whatever profit or loss I got from volatility trading is because of change in volatility. This is where hedging comes, right? So we hedge our positions. Essentially, this is called as dynamic hedging. So we continuously hedge the impact of underlying price, so that any change in your premium you see is because of volatility. That's the whole idea behind bringing hedging into a discussion when we are talking about volatility trading. So let, I'm sorry, yeah, so let me talk couple of points about that. Maybe I will drive with an example. So last time we discussed any kind of a volatility trade, you take on an average, this equation will tell you what can you expect from the trade. Essentially, you're capturing the difference between implied and realized volatility, since the profits are driven by weaker this equation tells you, on an average, what you can expect from a particular volatility trade. If you really observe this equation, there is no price component into it, right? There is only Vega, which is a Greek that tells you, how would your premium change when there is a change in volatility? I'll give you one more example on maybe get more intuition into it. But let's start with the same example we discussed the last time, which is hedging. Because when people are hedging, essentially without their knowledge, they are doing, what are they trade? Let's revisit this example, where there is an option which expects in one year, and the option strike price is 100 the type of option is a call so you own a one year 100 call. But what is the underlying? The underlying is $100 stock. This essentially tells you you bought a call option at the money. The underlying price is $100 and the strike price is at $100 and the volatility is 30% so what is happening here is there is a person who own this call option, but they would want to hedge their positions. So in in real time, these are hedging happens for to buy this call, you spent 11.9 $2 and you calculated what is the delta of the position. Your delta is 0.56 this is the information you need to hedge your position, because this tells you if there is a $1 change in delta, or any unit change in delta will result in 0.5 $6 change in your underlying so it is telling you if there is a underlying change of $1 your premium will change by 0.5 $6 so if you are hedging, you need to make sure this is canceled out. This impact on your premium 0.56 is canceled out. For that, you sell 0.56 shares. So essentially your delta is zero. So your initial position has a Delta of 0.56 so you take an additional short position of 0.56 shares, so that these two will get canceled out and you have a Delta of zero. But what happens if a stock price goes up right? There would be two in two things that happens when there is an increase in stock price, essentially, your call options will go up, and also your delta also goes up for that very reason. If you see if the call option is 18.48 18.14 which is up from 9.92 and delta is up to 0.68 now we think again. Initially, you canceled out the impact of 0.56 now there is an additional delta of 0.12 because delta went from 0.56 to six, eight. Again, you do the same thing. You cancel out this particular impact of 0.12 by selling 0.12 shares. This is generally what represents an idea of head. Changing for you, and now I will give you an example, like with this context, I'll tell you how volatility trading happens. This is more more into practice, right? Like for example, let me draw an example. Step one

Speaker 1  10:19  
on beginning of month you opened a long call. So what is happening here? This is actually fundamentally, whenever you open a long call, you spend premium to buy call. So now here lies the detail. When you say premium, what volatility, it depends on, right? Because whenever we are talking about certain kind of premium, right? If I say I bought a call option for, let's say 11.9 $4 I am considering implied volatility, because premium, whenever people bid for an option, they consider what happens through expiry. If they expect the expiry, during expiry or until expiry, the volatility will be higher. They consider that volatility to calculate premium. So essentially, it is a function of implied volatility. But step two is selling right? Let's say you're closing your positions. Let's say closing at expiration. When you're closing at expiration, the premium that is there for this call option is depending on realized volatility, because on an expiration day, settlement happens depending on what is the current underlying price and the volatility of the contract, so on an expiration, closing is a function of realized volatility. So this is the crux of volatility trading. You would want to capture the difference between implied volatility and realized volatility, right? So when I say this is a function of these two factors you are capturing through the change in premium. So for example, if the premium is $90 let's say the same example, let's say $11 and here, if the premium is, let's say $3 the difference between this premium and this premium tells you the capture you're getting from volatility in terms of implied and realized. So your P and L is a function of volatility, and this essentially is difference between implied wall and realized what? This is why we generally say, whenever you're trading using volatility, you're trying to capture difference between implies and realized so. So that's why it said at the expiration process, it captures the difference between implied and realized volatilities, but when you what you realize is the difference between premiums. But with this context, people might think it's easy to capture volatility, because I'll give you a very first idea of hedging. We will start with the first idea, and we'll try to improve it. This is what we did in the volatility trading example the last time. We started with expiry contracts that expires on Friday, and we try to optimize it so that we will get better equity curve. Same thing we do it. In fact, any beginner would start to think about hedging in this way. We will add more nuances once we understand how this particular idea works. Generally, whenever you have a stock, let's say you have a stock of $100 and you sold a one, not one call option. Let's try to understand this single line. Whoever is owning $100 stock, irrespective of how much capital it is if you want to hold it for longer time, you would want to ensure that any kind of a crash would not impact your position. It's easy to say, why don't they just have a stop loss? If I have a stock at $100 I don't want much bigger risk. Why don't they just keep a stop loss and keep it active. But then, when it comes to larger positions for longer duration. People don't want to trade right? They would want to invest. They don't want to get in and out of the position. They have a conviction that the stock is going to go up, but they don't know when. In such case, take a scenario where you sold a 101 call, what happens if you sold a 101 call, you can actually earn money when the stock falls. So this is one way to hedge. You have a long position in the underlying and you sold a 101, quote, essentially, if you take these two as a separate examples, let me actually dissect this. So let me give you more detail of what I'm. Here, in this example, part one is holding $100 stock, and then part two is selling 101, so let's try to understand separately, and

Speaker 1  15:19  
then we club it, because even when you're trading options, this is actually a simpler way to get an intuition of what would happen to your position. So when a stock goes up, let's say from $100 it went to one $10 you would start making money here because you're holding $100 stock. But what happens to this? Since you sold a 101, call, you would actually make money only when there is a crash in the stock, right? So if a stock goes up, part one gives you money. Part Two gives you loss. What happens if a stock goes down? Part one will actually deteriorate its value. But in part two, you can hold your premium, because whenever you're selling a call option, you're essentially collecting premium, and if it becomes in the money, in the sense, if, let's, I must say, not in the money, it's not technically right, if the stock price falls, in such case, you can keep your premium. That is how you passively earn income. So you, let's say, month one, you bought a position, and also you sold 101, call. If the stock falls fine, you can collect your premium. That's how you hedge the losses you got from Patra. Let's say in month two, also stock crashes, and if you sold the call again at the beginning of second month, you can collect the premium again. You are essentially waiting for a time where the price would actually go because when the price goes up, let's say it went to $200 you would only lose the money you sold for your call option. Essentially, these things are getting canceled out. Let me give you this particular idea. So when a stock goes above 101, you buy a share. Why would you buy a share? Because you would want to hedge your positions in the sense, whenever there is a change in the prices. You will take certain actions. When a stock goes above 101, because you sold a call option, you would want to cut down these losses. You buy a share on the same sense, if a stock falls again, you sell a share if you keep on doing it. This is actually a basic idea in practice. This wouldn't work. But anybody who gets into an idea of aging, they might think, why don't I just sell a call option and also buy a long position in an underlying and how would it play out in intuition, it plays out like you can make money anytime. This how it looks if a stock falls at expiration, since the stock fell. Let me go back to this example for stock fell, this is going to give you because you are already collected premium, and you can just hold to this premium. So essentially your profit is going to be capital C, which is a premium. But what happens on the other way, right? If a stock goes up? In that sense, your option is going to give you some kind of a loss, but it loss depends on how much it went up. So essentially, you already collected capital C, which is your premium, and S minus X is a loss you made. I'll just try to give more examples. $100 went to let's say 10210, $3 and premium collected is, let's say, $10 in this case, if stock goes up, option position goes like this, you already have $10 in your wallet, and since it went up by $3 you make A loss of $3 so it is 103 minus 100. So what is happening here is you have a cushion. Here you have $10 you already collected $10

Speaker 1  18:49  
so you can actually your breakeven is $110 for you, as long as the stock is below 110 essentially on the paper or making some kind of a money. So people might think either we are making some kind of a money, so why don't I go ahead and every single day or every single month short a call option at a higher strike. This walks on back of your paper. But one important thing that we are forgetting is these particular actions you are taking whenever the price moves right, when it goes above 101 you're buying a share, and when it is below, you're selling a share. Essentially, you are not only increasing your transaction costs, you're also fighting with the market. Because here the all the calculations are happening, assuming that if a stock goes above 101, you will be able to buy it at 101, or if it falls below 101 again, whatever the price, maybe you will be able to sell at that price. But in theory, it might work. In practice, it wouldn't. The reasons are the very first thing, it might give you infinite transaction costs, right? Because, as every day, the stock will move, and every day, if you keep on hedging, if. You want to mask the impact of the underlying and you keep on acting as the price moves, your P and L will be extremely volatile. And on the other hand, your transaction costs are also extremely high. For that very reason, whatever equation we have to represent of P and L, you should also consider costs and slip pages, because, on an average, you might say, if my volatility both are 0.3 realization in bright and my P handle is zero. The last class, also we have seen this may not be completely zero, because you have your cost and slip pages. Now we will understand, or we will try to strategize how to optimally deploy this hedge, right? So the very first thing you do is any, anytime, whenever you have an idea, we try to simulate this and see what happens. So in such case, if you simulate on an average, you might make some kind of a money, but made n is minus 27 what it means is 50% of the trades you're actually losing money. So doing hedge every single time is not a viable option for us. So for that very reason, we would try to come up with an idea. We will try to, we'll, we'll discuss two, three ideas and see how you can control this transaction costs. So we don't want to stop hedging. We have to hedge if we want to do volatility trade. So to repeat whenever you are doing volatility trade, since the major drivers are volatility and underlying price, this you want to mask. You don't want underlying price to impact your premium, so you continuously hedge it. But let's try to understand what is the problem here. Problem with continuous. Problem with continuous hedging is, of course, transaction costs. So let's see how we can. Let maybe solve it right? So one solution is, of course, we don't want to continuously hedge it, so how to optimally hedge it? One idea could be hedge at maybe defined time. Example, maybe hedge once every week, or once every two days, three days, two days, anything. So this is one way right see if you are doing a repeated trade every single day, why did you do is okay, don't do it every single day so that you can actually save your course. But the issue here is, if you don't hedge continuously, of course you have a risk of imbalance, right? Why are we doing to hedge? Why are we trying to do the hedge? Because you want to mask the impact of underlying. If the underlying is not masked continuously, of course you are going to have a profit and loss which is not driven by volatility. So what are we trying to solve here? We are trying what is actually optimum here, right strike a balance between risk of not hedging and reward of hedging. So this is what we were trying to do. We need to find a balance between risk of not hedging and also reward of hedging. So let's try to discuss some more ideas. Maybe instead of hedging at a regular interval, since our main reason for hedging is to mask the underlying price. Why don't we pull out an idea from underlying price itself? Maybe I would say this instead of hedging $1 change, or I must write it clearly every $1 change, why don't

Speaker 1  23:41  
we hedge for every $10 change, right? This is one idea, okay, maybe we don't try to think from time perspective, since our fundamental idea is to mask the impact of price, which is delta, why don't we widen the price gap? Right? Why don't we do it every $10 we can do this, but here I'll tell you one more problem. Problem could be, is it the same for $1,000 stock and maybe $1 stock? How do we make it common, right? How do you generalize it, because for $1,000 stock, maybe $10 change is not that much. It's just 1% change. But for a $1 stock, it is actually very high. So to generalize, I can actually say, maybe standard deviation of prices. I can standardize it, maybe I must say, hedge every two standard deviation. So this is also one way to think how to solve this problem of not continuously hedge here also you can argue with me saying, yeah, if I try to hedge it for particular move, I. We are not completely hedging. Yes, we are not completely hedging, but we would try to kind of balance, like a balance between risk and reward. But let's try to be more nuanced. Why don't we come up with certain thing that is depending on delta? So this is basically a function of time we try to think from time perspective, then this is a function of price. But why don't we be more fundamental, right? Since we are trying to hedge Delta, why don't we take decision based on Delta itself, I must say, instead of hedging for every maybe 0.12 0.1 maybe 0.1 change in delta. Why don't I come up with a threshold of delta? So this is how, this is our structured we are going to think so, since we are doing delta hedging, why don't we draw threshold from Delta itself? Maybe the idea is come up with Delta bands. So instead of keeping delta zero, why don't we come up with the threshold? Maybe I might say delta between 0.4 and 0.6 is it okay scenario form. So I'm saying, instead of always aiming for a Delta of zero, I should come up with a range. I might say, Okay, if the delta is between this range, I'm happy. If it is not in this range, maybe I will try to hedge it. This is, this is where we are trying to focus now, because if you're trying to deal with time or just deal with price, there are issues with it, but we intuitively, we might say, yeah, it is not completely hedged, but that is again, a easier route to take, right? But we need to be more nuanced. That's why we talk from Delta perspective. So we will come up with a range. We say, Okay, if this is in this range, I can confidently go ahead with my hedge, even it is not continuous hedge, I'm okay with it. We this is what we are trying to solve in next 30 minutes.

Speaker 1  27:14  
So this is where we are trying to look at utility based methods. I'll give you a bit of a background of what a utility based method is, and why are we trying to kind of incorporate these two different concepts of delta hedging utility methods? This is, again, an econometrics theory and also behavioral finance concept which tells you you can't perfectly strike it, or you can't have a scenario where you can completely take off the risk from the plate, even when we are trying to talk about hedge, we will say, we will try to eliminate the risk. But that is wrong, right? We correct it and say we try to mitigate the risk. That's why we try to bring in utility based methods, because in finance, especially when you are hedging. The whole idea is not to limit, or, I might say, not to completely eradicate, the risk, but you want to limit the risk, right? You want to limit the fall you're going to have when there is a crash in the market. Even in behavioral finance, we try to bring in the same ideally, for example, let's say we are driving a bike, right? We might speed up up to, let's say, 100 miles per hour, or 80 miles per hour, but there would be a point where we would think, is it worth the is it worth the risk to get into this much speed? Because, of course, the reward for getting the speed is not only the time you're going to save, but all the also the thrill you're going to get, right? But there would always a point where even though our bike can go maybe 200 miles per hour, we will limit the rest at certain speed level, because psychologically, with our experience, we feel okay, this thrill is not worthy enough. The same thing we are going to bring into hedging right? Since we are not continuously hedging, we are discontinuously hedging in the sense we are leaving some hedge on the table. Now, how much should we leave if you are risking of not hedging, how much risk are you willing to take? That's what we are going to solve here. For example. This is a very famous curve that tells you this is a utility. Utility is what is output you're going to get from something right. In behavioral finance, there is a concept of exponential utility when it actually added to wealth. When you're talking about the context of wealth, these are the ideology goes when your wealth increases, that access shows you the wealth. The y axis is the utility you're going to get from that wealth. At some point, you're not going to get as much utility from wealth as you're getting from beginning. Let me explain it more detailed. Let's say you have $100 right? You can do only few things when you have $100 with you. So. But as your wealth increases, let's say you reach 100k a million, a 10 million, 100 million, a billion or etc, as you, as your wealth increases, there will be more and more utilities you can extract from that wealth. But at some point you see a pattern that irrespective how much wealth you can have, there are only few more things you could do. So as your wealth increases, you would reach a point where, after this particular amount of wealth, I wouldn't find as many utilities I can extract from it. Similar ideology, if I had to give an idea, or maybe same example of driving a bike as you increase the speed, at some level, you would find a value of speed you feel like it's not worth the risk. Maybe you would not get as much utility as you're getting at the earlier point when you're accelerating after certain limit, you feel like you're not getting enough utility, and the risk is also high. Similar mentality when you're thinking about a risk reward, we know we have huge risk reward, right? A simple way to use it. If I risk a risk $1 I might get a reward of $3 and then you might take the trade. Somebody also might be comfortable to risk $2 to get $3 out of it. So it is a behavioral thing. Depending on the person, the risk will change. So whenever we are trying to find out what is the optimal Delta to start hedging, it's not only about this mathematical or behavioral philosophy. It's not always about what is the risk you're taking and what is the reward you're getting.

Speaker 1  31:39  
You should also make sure you are a part of equation. As a trader, your psychology is also inbuilt into the equation. For example, if you and me use the same equation, imagine I'm a very risky trader and you are a risk averse trader. You don't want to take much risk. You and me can't use the same equation and do same volatility trade. That defeats the whole purpose, right? So we have a method, and that combines all this. So we have a method called Wilmot Valley approximation. I'm going to show you what that is. We're going to discuss that essentially, the output is, it is going to give you two bands, or, I must say, it is going to give you two levels of delta. And the same example it could be, maybe it could be this itself. So your delta bands. This is where we are going to introduce Delta bands. Maybe higher band might be like something like 0.2 delta. And the lower band might be 0.1 Delta, it could be this, or I can also give you one more example. Maybe it could be 0.6 Delta, and this could be 0.2 delta. So it depends on what contract you're trading, how risk averse you are, what are your transaction costs? What is your gamma? All these things we're going to spend time on that, but essentially, we would come up with an equation that tells you the range of delta you should aim for. Because without the Delta bands, maybe, I must say, with Delta bands, this is the approach. But without Delta bands, you aim for a Delta of zero. Without Delta bands, you aim for a Delta of zero, because you don't want any change in the underlying to impact your volatility position. So you absolutely aim for zero, and this actually push you to do continuous edge, which essentially gives you higher transaction cost. So this is the reason we try to introduce Delta bands. And it if you see this, you can categorize this as maybe narrow bands, because the difference between higher and lower band is low, and this could be categorized as wider bands. So let's understand first, we will go through the equation, and we also see some examples, and try to get more intuition out of it. I'll drive it through couple more examples and and then we go to the equation. So in general, if you are trying to solve it, if you want to also introduce this kind of a Delta banks into your premium equation, right? We discussed about black source model, you can also solve for it. I mean, last day we discussed there are some issues with Black Scholes model, which basically comes from assumptions. It doesn't include dividends. If you want to include dividend, you can actually mathematically solve it. It doesn't include drift. If you want to include drift, again, you can solve it using mathematics and come with. A variation of Black Scholes. Even for this also, instead of having a premium, a single premium value, which is depending on single Delta, you can also try to solve it to give you a range of Delta. But it's actually not straightforward, and it's very difficult every single time you need to solve a extremely big differential equation. That's why, in utility methods, we try to come up with a utility method that essentially gives you this scenario for you. So let me explain you what this scenario means. This is an outcome of the equation we are going to see, but before that, I would want you to understand the outcome itself, so that when we discuss the equation, it is more into and this is, this is a delta band structure you get when you try to hedge using short call position. Let's say you have a short call position, and if you use the equation, these two bands you see are the bands that tells you what should be your delta. So this dotted line is essentially what is theoretical Delta, right? Practically, when you're trading any short call option, this tells you what is the delta, and the delta increases as as the delta increases, your bands also increases, if you see. So the example is, let's take maybe, let's check this right at 0.4 at 0.4 your positions delta is probably 0.38 This is what your position delta is. But the utility based method says try to hedge it

Speaker 1  36:34  
so that you don't need to hedge it completely. You don't need to bring the Delta from 0.38 to zero. Instead, you just need to hit so that your position delta will be between this band and this band. That's the idea here, because continuously hedging and also continuously spending money to bring the Delta absolutely to zero is going to give you more cost. So to solve it, to make it more optimal, we will come up with banks that tells you where the Delta should be. For example, if your position is 0.6 right? If the call delta is 0.6 you need to make sure the underlying position is between this delta and this delta. So you don't need to bring it to zero. It's okay if it is between these two values. Similar thing, similar way. You can also solve it for long call option. If you have a long call option, then if you are trying to think, how do I hedge it optimally, you don't need to always bring the Delta to zero instead, depending on where the call option delta is, you can make sure the delta is between these bands. So I'll show you how these things are calculated, and then maybe we can also come back to these plots again and try to understand them from the viewpoint of the equations. So I'll come back to these plots again. Let me. Let me give you a bit of an idea of what these bands are, right? So here we use a utility based method. Essentially, it is an approximation, which is called Wilmoth Valley approximation. So this is the equation of Wilmot Valley approximation. I know it sounds, looks like a scary equation, but I'll try to give you. Let's spend some time here. Let's try to understand why these terms are in this equation. That is an easiest way to understand any kind of an equation you see in finance. The very first question you need to ask is, what are all the terms it has? And then try to build an intuition of why do we have these terms? That is the very first step to kind of get an idea of any kind of an equation, because only when you're convinced why there are particular terms in a particular equation, only then you can actually confidently go ahead and use it, and as you start using it in future, you don't need to use this equation every single time. You might get a feel of the market, and you might go ahead and use some values. I'll give you an example. Whenever you're driving a bike. I'm trying to draw parallels with the same example. When you're driving the bike, you don't always check what gear you're in, or you're in a first gear or a second gear or third gear. Initially, as you're learning to drive, you might look at your speedometer, you might look at your gear meter, etc. But as you get more experience, you automatically drive change, shift your gears. Don't always calculate what is my current speed and should I go to my higher gear or lower gear? Right? Similar way. Let's try to build intuition to this particular equation. I'll start with the terms we have. On the left side, you see a delta, or, I must say, use the word Delta, but this is just a difference, right? What is the difference? What is the bandwidth you're trying to capture, whatever band you're trying to capture? If you go to this equation, you. These bands are either above the delta of your position or below the delta of your position. It's more visible when you have a short position. These bands either should be below delta or above Delta, right? For that very reason, this equation is structured this way. This is the delta, or, I must say, this is what you're trying to hitch This is rate of change of price, or come as a premium with respect to the underlying price. So you want something above the Delta and something below the Delta. That's why equation has a plus and a minus. This particular equation is going to give you two different values, like this example we have seen, you will have two values out of this equation. So this particular DV versus DS is nothing but the Greek delta we have discussed in the previous class. So rate of change of premium with respect to your underlying price. And then you add this value and you subtract this value to get two different values that essentially construct your bands. Now, what are

Speaker 1  41:07  
these values? Right here you have three by two of exponential minus r, of t minus t. First, let's try to understand what this is. This is actually a discounting factor, but in a more practical sense, capital R tells you what is the interest rate. You calculate per annum interest rate, and then you use it here. But wherever you see capital T or small t we discussed in the previous class, also capital T in options literature tells you what is the expiration period, and capital small t is essentially tells you how many days you're already into the position, or to keep it simply, T, managed T will tell you how many days are left for expiring. So, for example, you took a one month contract, and this is a very first day. Maybe this could be one month, right? If it is expiring in 30 days, T, managed T is 30 if you are in middle of the month, and if it is expiring in next 15 days, then T minus T will tell you, T minus T is 15. So it depends your bandwidth also depends on when your position is expiring. We have already seen at the beginning of the month the way the options contracts behave, maybe if you see from the eyes of Greeks, right? We discussed there is a time value for the Greek and time value theta will tell you how speed your contracts, premium deteriorates, right? If it is the beginning of the month, your theta value would be less, but as you move a very closer to the expiry, you see more and more deterioration. That tells you, whenever you take a decision on your options contract, it's wise to actually think, what is the impact of trying to expand. So that's why this particular equation is leading with that. And then you have a variable. I don't want to actually give you a formula for it. I'll give you an example how to define this variable. So let's call this lambda. So this lambda represents what are your transaction costs? Because if I'm trading, let's say from US markets, and if you are trading from, let's say European markets or Asian markets, we both have different transaction costs, right? And also, since we are trying to find an optimal Delta, essentially, you're trying to optimize the amount you spend for a Delta engine. You want to save your costs. So it's quite logical to think if you ever have an equation that tells you what, what should be your position of delta, then it should also include or consider the transaction cost you're paying. Essentially, you're trying to minimize your transaction cost. This particular variable, lambda is your proportional transaction cost. I'll give you an example. Then you will understand how to calculate this, or how to come up with your own term, then you have capital S. Capital S is underlying price that you know, whenever you see capital S in any kind of a literature, it's just underlying price. Then you have a gamma, right?

Unknown Speaker  44:17  
So these are all the main terms you have. One more term. I'll get there, but let's try to understand why you

Speaker 1  44:22  
have a gamma in the equation that tells you what should be your delta. It's, it's, it's, it's quite straightforward. Whenever you're trying to make sense of delta, you should also make sense of gamma, because gamma tells you how quickly your delta is changing. Because, see today, if you are formulating everything based on current market scenario, and if you're trying to hedge for a Delta of, let's say, 0.5 but if your gamma is extremely high, your delta will quickly change. Your delta can go from 0.5 to 0.6 or 0.4 or it can go up to 0.9 also. So if you try to optimize for current market conditions, and within a minute, the market condition will change, and you have to calibrate again. You don't want to do it again and again, isn't it, our whole idea is not to kind of change our stance of hedging every single minute or every single price change. You would want a generalized, optimal approach. For that very reason, your approximation or your calculation of Delta bands also considers del gamma. In fact, you have seen gamma square because it's the most important term. And as you move forward, you'll understand your delta bands will change as a function of gamma itself. Gamma is your primary driver for you, and last but not least, you have a term called kappa. This is a term that that is the input of you, as I were discussing earlier. Every decision you take based on risk reward has a personality trait of a trader, right? Because for you, it might be an extremely risky position, and you don't want to trade maybe for me or for somebody else. They might think, okay, I'm okay for that risk. So if I have an approximation method for delta, I should actually be within the equation. That's what kappa means. But it is not straightforward to calculate Kappa, so we will see methods to calculate this also. So to repeat, to revise, we have an approximation equation that is going to give you two different values that essentially construct your bands. So let's go back to these bands what we were discussing. So this is a band that is constructed for a short chord. So this tells you at every single delta of your call position. You have a you have two different values of delta within which your position should be in, for example, as the same example we were driving at 0.4 of call delta. Let's say you have shorted a call and if delta is 0.4 and if your positional delta is, let's say, 0.38 if you want to hedge your position, you don't need to bring your positional Delta to zero. Instead, you should make sure you bring your delta within the bank. If you bring it within the bank, that's the optimal way to delta H. And also, you can see you don't need to do it every single time. You just need to see you just need to hedge. It only when the delta is out of this band. In this example, you're not doing every single time. Maybe in this particular bunch, you don't need to hedge at all, because already your positional delta is within the band. So you save your transactional codes there, and every single point of time also, even if you want to hedge, you don't need to hedge to bring it to zero. You just need to hedge it to bring it to this particular band. That's why, in general, whenever you have shorter positions, you have an arrow band, because people kind of pursue there it is more riskier to have a short position, right? Or maybe I will give you in another sense, maybe let's think about the difference between wider band and narrow band first, right? So let me give you this example itself. Let's take these two examples of a narrow band and a wider band, what happens if you have a narrow band? So think of it like this. Here, there is not much of a regular room. You should always make sure your delta is between 0.1 and 0.2 so in a way, if your bands are narrower, your costs are going to be high because you're going to hedge a lot, because if it goes about 0.2 you edge. And if it goes below 0.1 you hedge, so that your position will be back between 0.1 and two. So you hedge might often. So for that very reason, whenever you have narrow bands, you are actually aiming for higher risk aversion. What it means is, if you don't want to take more risk, right? If you are risk averse, if you are afraid of risk, you should configure your equation in such a way that it will give you an error balance. I will tell you how it is done. But at a theoretical level, if you are somebody who is okay with the risk,

Speaker 1  49:17  
maybe you don't. You don't worry about if the band being narrow, you would want to have a wider band. So this is example. So more practically, this is going to give you more cost compared to this, because here there is more wiggle room right between 0.2 and 0.3 or 0.6 let me give you this example. Let's say current delta is 0.3 if you have narrow bands, I'm sorry if you have narrow bands, you have to hedge it, because the current delta is 0.3 Your objective is to bring the delta between 0.2 and one. So you would take some short position so that the delta will. Come down to zero, point towards 0.15, whatever. But if you have wider bank, you don't need to do it. So you are saving more cops when you have wider banks. So this is where a personality of you as a trader comes in every single time you try to strike a balance between cost and reward, right? So if you're okay with higher costs, then maybe you can go for it. And if you are not okay with higher cost, you want to save the cost, then you would go for wider bank. On another hand, if you are talking about a risk, if you are a risk administrator, you don't want to take a risk at all, then you spend more amount of money, and you go for narrower banks. If you are somebody who is okay to take risk, then you go for wider binds. So I'll give you more examples on the same let me take it forward with some examples. So the whole idea is to save your cost. For example. See, we are talking about short call or long call, right? But essentially, people day in and day would they have their straddles, they would want to take volatility trade, but even when they are having straddles, essentially, in a way, your costs are already controlled, because straddle is a position where you don't have a impact of delta, because already you have a call position and a put position. But essentially, if you're going for any other positions, right, let's say you have a combination of calls and puts. I'll give you a complex example, because in practice, options trading will become bit more complex. So if you're talking about straddle or a strangle I'm buying. Let's, let's. Let's talk about short straddle, right? Selling one call and one put. But in practice, having a single straddle or a strangle might not be always practical in most of the scenarios you would want to combine positions. Maybe sometimes you might have a position like position could be one straddle and one shot. I'll give you example for this. Also in the case study, where you would start with the straddle, then you realize maybe I would want to control more cost, or maybe I want to control more risk, and then you open an acre position, also combining this will be your position. So when you are talking about controlling the Delta, or delta hedging, you continuously hedge the positional delta of this. You don't only hedge for single position. One short put you hedge for holistic delta. So this is where I'm going to tell you one example. So you always have this question. If you see this equation, we can understand this, which is delta, and you know, capital R cap, which is interest rate that you can get it and time to expiry, also easily. You can get it depending on what calendar date it is, and transaction cost and kappa. These two are the terms which are not straightforward, right? Because all other things, you know how to get it, you know how to get gamma. You know how to get underlying price, time to expiry, interest rate and Delta. But how do you get transaction cost, and how do you get couples? So let's deal one first. Let's deal with lambda, which represents transaction cost. So technically it is called as proportionate transaction cost, right? So for example, let's say I'm trading Apple, which bring example of Apple.

Unknown Speaker  53:48  
Let's say I'm trading apple which is trading at maybe one $30 right? And my trading cost, or an asset transaction cost,

Speaker 1  54:02  
for cost is, let's say, $1 so in this case, my lambda would be $1 by 130 This is what proportional transaction means. So when I say proportional transaction cost, this is going to represent how out of the value, the value is one $30 that is underlying, and for this value, how much am I spending for transaction? So here we are talking about index. I'm sorry, you're talking about options, right? So if I am trading APL options, essentially I what is the value of it, and then what is the transaction I'm paying? For example, if I'm dealing with any kind of an index, and let's say it is $100 and maybe I'm just spending 0.0 $5 then this is my lambda. So depending on your transaction costs and value, your lambda will change. So for that very reason, if you take an x. Example, if you're trading one year options on an unfamiliar index, let's say you don't know you recently started trading a new contract, and you have no idea how that contract behaves in that scenario, generally, this is the step by step process. First you will see what is the value if you're trading that index. The index is at $100 and you see, what is your gamma, and you see, what is your transaction cost. See if I am spending 0.05 for every $100 or, let's say the value of an index is 100. So 0.05 by 100, I get all these values. I know the Delta, I know gamma, and everything I can get. But what is kappa right earlier, I don't know what my lambda is. Now I get to know what my lambda is depends on transaction cost and value of the underlying but now, how do I actually get this value of copper? This is where you as a trader comes in, because, in general, when you actually start trading options, you don't Delta hedge continuously, and you don't always bring the Delta to zero, because it is practically not possible, because the prices will change every single time. So it's not possible, as a manual trader also to continuously hedge at every millisecond or every tick, right? That's why, in practice, traders will think, cello, it's okay if my delta is 0.2 traders will intuitively come up by saying, I don't need to hedge it if my delta is until 0.2 because it will not move my premium much. Maybe I'll start hedging when my delta is above zero point if 0.2 is your number. You can actually substitute that value here, because if you substitute that's essentially what you're trying to calculate here, right? What is your thresholds? What is your upper limit and lower limit? If you substitute those values here, then if you solve for Kappa, then it will give you a value that you can use it in all scenarios. For example, if I use like I maybe I'm comfortable with SMB 500 and want to hedge it until the delta is above 0.3 or it's okay for me, if the delta is 0.3 I don't need to get a feel to continuously hedge. If I put in values, maybe my number would be 0.24 if this is my value, I can confidently use it for every single new index that I'm going to use. So that's how you try to approximate. Using Wilmot Mali approximation, you come up with your brands. So you substitute the values for particular to that particular options contract and kappa is one that comes from your experience that actually defines what kind of a trader you are. So again, whenever you the whole reason why we are doing this hedging is to structure a volatility trade, right? So at the end of the day, you're trying to mask the impact of delta, so that whatever change in your premium positions, you put premium of your position is because of change in volatility. But all these things, said and done, you might actually lose money, even if you structure everything in this way. Because, in a more practical sense, whenever we do our calculations, let's say I forecasted my volatility. Last class, we discussed how to use GARCH model to forecast volatility. You forecasted a higher volatility, let's say and then you shorted. You took a short straddle, because you expect the volatility to probably currently, the volatility is extremely high. I'll just write it down, maybe forecasted volatility is, let's say zero point, I would say 30% and current more

Speaker 1  58:51  
is, let's say 50% just destroying some example numbers, if current volatility is 50% and this is, let's say, implied volatility, whatever option you're trading Currently, it is considering 50% but you forecast at 30% volatility, so you are expecting a crash in volatility, right? It is falling from 30 to 50 to 30. So you can take a short position in volatility now, and you can buy back when volatility falls. That is the whole idea. So when volatility is high, the premiums are costly. So you sell at high volatility. When volatility low, premiums are cheaper and you buy back. So to do this, you can actually come up with your forecast and go ahead here. It might look like a positive thing, but there would be scenarios where you would lose money, even if you do this because we are not continuously hedging, this works only when you are continuously hedging and making sure underlying is not impacting your premium. So for that very reason, on an average, you can always consistently take positions, but on an average, you are going to capture the volatility. You're going to. Get the edge from volatility and make it into alpha. But if you take an individual trade levels with all this analysis, also sometimes it might result in a lost trade. So how are we going to do it then? Then this is where you talk about path dependency. So if I had to give a bit of a background to part dependency. I can assume most of you had already traded some kind of stocks, right, be it paper trade or be it manual trading. Let me show you one part for you, and then give an example of why this part dependency exists.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:49  
So let's take apple again. This is again why we actually try to,

Speaker 1  1:00:59  
some might say that we are over complicating right? Because initially, when we are talking about volatility trading, we are only talking about volatility forecast, et cetera. Now we are also talking about delta hedging. It is a common industry practice to hedge your delta because you are capturing everything become pure volatility. So now when we are talking about part dependency, let me start with a simple example of what this part dependency is. Let's start with stocks itself. Right? Whenever you have stocks, let me try to close this. Yes, I will just delete this also. So let's consider this path of a stock. This is Apple stock. So where I'm leading to is, if you're trading stocks, it's quite straightforward. You might have a let's say you have a long position here. You can take a long position, and you might have a target here, probably somewhere here, anything. It could be anything. And if this is the place you are trading with, you would start having stop loss. Maybe this is your stop loss, and you don't want to hold your position when the stock is below this. So without what you noticed is we are considering the path it had taken the past, and then accordingly, we are trying to find optimal ways to enter and optimal ways to exit. Also see, I'm thinking the stock comes here, because previously it took some support here. I would want to take a long and then aim for higher price. But if something goes wrong, I don't want to hold maybe below this point, because after this, I don't know if the stock could hold out. So this is only limited to this particular decision. The path dependency is only limited to where and where it exit when you have stocks, but when you're dealing with options, it is more complex. The reason is the premium will change as the prices change, isn't it? So the path the options underlying contract taken is part dependency that defines what your premium should do, and it also defines how you should consider your risk, where you should enter. Because as the experience comes, if the market is trending, you would want to hedge it in a way, if the market is raining on you would want to change your stance of it. Jg, I'll give you example for that also. So in this scenario, what happens when you're back testing, right? This is where the interesting problem comes in. When I'm back testing for stock, it's fine. I've seen this. I'll just consider last five years of data, or 10 years of data back test my option, sorry, stock position, and then maybe come up with the risk and reward. But when I'm dealing with options, the premium, the path the premium has taken, is only a single example. Right? Just because the price has moved this way, my premiums also will have a similar path, or some kind of a path. But if my price change even by 1% my premiums would have been completely different. My in the money might have become out of the money. My at the money might not be the same. At the money. I'm only talking about the part depends on price. If there is a minor change in volatility, my premium will change, minor change in interest or time to expiry. Also my premium will change. Where I'm leading to is there is a dependency of path the premium had taken to understand it. So this is the reason why, every single time even you back test an option, you might not get a complete picture of what could be the outcome in future. It is actually safe for stock also, but the impact is greater when you're dealing with options, whenever you're dealing with options, path dependency is one concept that is actually acting against you when you're trying to do certain kinds of measurement. It's Be it a back test of, let's say you have a long position in a call option. Your idea is, I will take at the money, and above at the money, 10% above at the money, I'll start selling a call option if this is your simple options trading strategy, and if you back test it, and maybe in backtest it gave you extremely good profits, then when you go for real trading, you can't actually expect the same result, because all the back testing you did is based on a single path the price or a premium had taken, but any minor change in all the variables that impact in the premium would have resulted in a different path. So you need more holistic approach. Ideally you should simulate. I will show you some simulated plots. Also, ideally, how you should go ahead is you need to come up

Speaker 1  1:05:59  
with multiple parts. You need to kind of forecast, what are all the different parts that a stock could take, and what are all the different paths a premium would take? And you need to take an average of the back test treatment. Let me show you one such example. Let me go back to where, yeah, we are talking about path dependency. So this is where we talk about, how many times do we need to hit so far. We are talking about a band of Delta. Maybe we are talking about a higher limit and lower limit of delta, to which you need to hedge so. But what I am saying is, all the said and done, you're only taking input depending on the path the premium had taken or underlying price had taken in the past. A minor change in this would have result in a completely different path. So this is the reason you can't always expect profit, even when you back test rigorously and on paper, it looks like you had a good volatility edge, because the path dependency is what deviates the results for you. So this is why you should also think with all your calculations of optimal entry, optimal exit, optimal delta hedging. Should also think what is the limit of number of edges? Let me go back to the same stats we had when we are talking here. Yes, we have a narrow band and a wider band. Let's say you belong to this category and you have a narrow band. So we discussed the issue with narrow bands is your risk is more controlled. But the problem is, your costs are going to be comparatively high because you're going to hedge a bit more than your wider binds, isn't it? So there is another way to kind of limit this course, that is number of times you hedge, since you are

Unknown Speaker  1:08:01  
hedging discontinuously, what if, if you could come up with a number that tells you? Okay, I would

Speaker 1  1:08:07  
follow this method. But if I reach, let's say, 100 hedges, I would stop hedging. That's where we talk about the concept of just one second, yes. So that's where we talk about the concept of frequency of edge. So first you need to understand how this impacts your panel, how this impacts your trading process. There are some technical terms here. I'll try. So far we have been talking about intuitive terms, but we have to talk in a technical terms. Dispersion is what we are talking about. So what it says is dispersion is roughly inversely proportional to square root of number of edges. So what does it exactly mean? What it means is, whenever you try to hedge a lot at the same time, and we will try to predict what could be your P and L, we generally use this equation right. PLL is equal to Vega into difference in volatilities. So we said, on an average, this would work. But what if, if you want to get more and more accurate values, see, you use this particular equation, and this equation is giving you a particular number, but this is actually with an assumption that you are continuously hedging, but now we are talking a scenario where you are not continuously hedging, because that is giving you lots of transaction was so how are these two connected? Obvious, your number of hedges and the accuracy of P and L are connected. This is all they are connected. When you are talking about accuracy of this, you're talking about the deviation of the real Pendle compared to the theoretical Pendle. That is what dispersion means. So the dispersion is roughly inversely proportional to square root of number of edges. What it means is, if you do more and more hedges, your profit focus. Is going to be more and more accurate. So this tells you how deviated you are from your theoretical Pendle. If you want to come up with more accurate panel, you need to have more and more edges. But we all know, right, if you have more and more edges, entire discussion become invalid. We are all discussing, how do we actually control the number of edges? Right? We are not in a game of hedging more and more so that we can have like better accuracy of the handle. Our whole objective is to save our cost. That is where this particular elbow curve helps us. And this is, again, comes back to our utility method. We from zero to 50. As you increase the number of hitches, you are more and more accurate in predicting your P and L. There is actually a utility here. As you increase it is inversely proportional. It is actually bringing down the inaccuracy. But after certain point, the for example, here you went from zero to 50, and you had a sharp decline in the inaccuracy. Now you are better off, or better accurately predicting what could be your pay handle. But from 50 to 100, even though you jumped 50 points or 15 hedges, as you did from zero to 15, your utility is less, right. You're not getting as much as you're getting here, and the same behavior you see as you move forward essentially tells you, if you could find this elbow, this elbow is 50. So if you could simulate this, and then this will tell you, Okay, maybe 50 is where I draw the line, because from zero to 50, as I increase my edge, my cost also increases. But that's okay, I'm able to more and more accurately predict, what could my PNL be, but after 50, I'm spending too much cost, but I'm not getting any benefit out of it. So this is one way to think. You control number of hedges. Instead of just thinking where I should hedge, you should also think how many times I should this is, again, one more dimension to think so. To club all this together, we need to think few things. Let me actually write down the same because, because when, whenever we want to come back to this equation for our approximation right for Delta bands, we have these things that are as inputs, first is delta, and second is interest

Unknown Speaker  1:12:26  
rates, and third is time to expand. And then underlying price,

Speaker 1  1:12:39  
we also have lambda, which is transaction or, I must say, proportional transaction cost. And the next important thing is couple, which is risk aversion metric. So here, there is one more interesting thing that place, which is whenever you're calculating delta. This where I want to show you a Python code that you can use to calculate delta. And you can actually get it from some websites, like last time you have seen price letters, options, sliders where the delta is already present, but you can also calculate this. Let me actually show you how it is done, and then we will see how we actually club all the things that we spend so you have this in your LMS. You can download it, but I'll just show you. I've created a small function using Libyan library that takes these things as input parameters. It takes current stock price, strike price, interest rate, days to expiry, volatility and option type. If you give these as input, if you give these details, the function is going to give you the values of Greeks. So here is the function that I've created. This how you use so there is this function with all the inputs that we have listed. And for example, if you give these as inputs strike price of 100. And maybe you want to understand 105, put option or call option, if this is your strike price. So you just need to type in option price. Option type here, and then pull this function, and then it's going to give you what is the delta, theta, rho, gamma of it is, since this is a put option here, when you're seeing negative, for example, if I check it call option, then I got my delta here, right? So this is how I calculate. But here is an interesting detail. It depends on volatility. So this is where I want to just repeat what we had in OTS three. What is this volatility? Right? Because we discussed this is actually implied volatility in theory, when I exchange putting up option. Contract on, on the exchange, initially, they consider the volatility of underlying and then theoretically, we can calculate what could be the premium, right? But as we actually get into trading, once traders start trading, they consider different volatility. That's why we say that is implied volatility. Now I'm saying, since my calculations, my calculations of Delta bands,

Unknown Speaker  1:15:27  
is using all this and my objective is to capture difference

Speaker 1  1:15:35  
between implied wall and realized world, I get a very interesting question, when I'm calculating Delta should I use implied volatility as an input to my delta calculation, or should I use realized volatility, not only for Delta calculation, anywhere I'm doing options volatility trading, if I'm trying to model my risk or model my optimal interest, should I consider implied volatility, or should I consider realized volatility? That is a question, because there is no right answer. You can use either of implied or realized. Again, this is where as a trader you comes in depending on what kind of a trader you are and what is your objective, you can either use implied volatility or realized volatility. The example here is here we are trying to calculate delta. Now again, the question comes if I'm using this delta for my options trading, especially volatility trading, or maybe more specifically, for my calculating my delta banks. Should I use realized or, I must say, historical volatility, or should I use implied volatility when I'm actually calculating my

Unknown Speaker  1:16:55  
delta we're going to get discuss this maybe after the break. Let's take 10 minute break and post that we're going to revisit this. So let me

Speaker 1  1:17:06  
show you what we are going to discuss once we are back. So once we are back, we are going to discuss what is your hedging volatility? If you are hedging all the calculations you are trading or you are taking, are you considering implied or realized volatility, because that is one key detail that changes your value, right? Because implied volatility is something in realized vodalis, and there is a difference between these two. That is why you are trying to capture the difference. So if you change the numbers, your outcomes are also going to change. So which is the right way that we are going to discuss. Let's take 10 minute break, and then meanwhile, if you have any questions, just type it out, post the break. I'm going to pick all the questions. And yeah, let's meet in 10 minutes.

Speaker 1  1:27:06  
Hi everyone. Let's continue the class, but I won't see any open questions anyhow. I don't see any open questions. Looks like all are answered. But if you still have any doubts, you can just type it out. Let's take it probably end of the class. So let's come back to this, which is choosing a hedging volatility. So essentially, we are thinking conceptually. When I'm planning my hedge, should I use implied volatility to do my calculations, or should I use realized volatility? The answer is, you can use

Unknown Speaker  1:27:46  
anything, but it depends on what kind of outcomes you want. Let's see what those are.

Speaker 1  1:27:56  
So last, as we have seen, you need to put a volatility into your pricing model that is going to tell you what is your delta and what is your gamma, etc, right? So for this reason, there are two options, so I'm going to write it down. So this actually brings back to how Are we closing? Let me show you what we discussed. Yeah, so this is what happens in a volatility trade, right? So what you're doing is, you know, at the beginning of the trade, the implied volatility is what defines the premium. Whenever you're entering, implied volatility tells you what the premium is, but when you're exiting it expiry, expiry, the calculations, the settlements, happens fifth realized volatility in the equation, right? Because when you're going for expiry, it all depends on where your underlying price is. Is it above your strike price, or is it below your strike price essentially defines what your profit or loss is. So that's where your realized volatility is coming to picture. So when I have a question, Should I use implied volatility or realized volatility for all my modeling? The answer is, Do you want an accurate P and L at closing of your trade, or you want accurate P and L while holding the trade, that's where the difference is. So theoretically, theoretically, this is like this, if you use implied volatility. I'm just read out the technical terms, but I will explain you clearly. Whenever you are using implied volatility, you would have low MTM variance, but an uncertain final number. What does it mean? Right? Let's break it into multiple parts. So what volatility to you? While more. Other link your rates, if you are using implied wall, there are two things that would happen, close, MDM or I should write it low, MTM variance, but I answer uncertain. Final number, what it means is, what is low MTM variance. So, MTM is Marko market. This is a technical term that we see on all trading platforms. Also, if you have an open position, what is your current property and right? Let's say if entries $100 for long, for long, right and exit is at one, $20 your final number would be, it's simple. It is $20 right? Final number is nothing but your final P and L. But when I say MTM, it tells you what is my current P and L, so it changes, right? If current price is, let's say 101, MTM. Is $1 Am I right? If you're buying it, $100 if your current price is 101 MTM is $1 similarly, if my current price changes to, let's say 111, and my P and L would be 111 so like this. If you track it every single day, let's see if you track it every single day, on a final day, if my current price is, let's say 120 and my MTM, also my final P and L. So this is how you think in this scenario, if you entered at $100 and you exited at 120 every single day, your p and l will change because you're holding your positions. MTM is what tell what represents your current P and L. So if a price is at 101 if today it is at 101 your MTM is $1 if it is 111, it is $11

Speaker 1  1:32:22  
on the very last day. If the price on the last day is 120 your MTM is $20 also your final PNL is also $20 because this is the last trading day. So now this is where you would want to take a decision before you take a volatility trade, you would want to kind of get an idea of what could be your Pendle, right? This is where we try to do back test. We try to do simulations. Maybe, let's say you simulate it. If your simulation outcome, or your back test outcome, is to accurately measure what would be your final panel, then you need to use realized volatility, because all the final panel calculations happen, settlement happens on realized volatility. So at any point, if you want to calculate, maybe you would use your historical volatility, isn't it? But think of it like this, if you don't care what your final pay handle is, but you would want to accurately see from the beginning of the trade, beginning of entry, until the last day, every day, how your pay handle is changing. What is your daily mark to market. If this is your preference, this is where your analysis lies, then you need to use implied volatility for all your calculation. The reason being, implied volatility is something that tells you that gives you reason for the current volatility or current premium value. If I go to any website today and find what is the current premium of that contract. It is telling me that it inherently considers an implied volatility and coming up with that particular number. If traders are willing to buy a particular options contract at $5 they are considering they are implying certain volatility for expiry, and then they are bidding that value. So if you are too keen about everyday values, then use implied volatility for your calculations, for your modeling. If you're only worried about your final panel, then you consider historical volatility, and then use your historical volatility for all your modeling, I'll give you some examples of these simulations. So let's take this example. Let's take a same example and try to get outcomes of both using implied volatility and realized volatility. So. So in this example, let's take a one year option. What it indicates it indicates your time to expire. If you take an option that is expiring in an year, and Vega is $1,000 Now consider this one year options sold at 40 volt, hedged at 40 volt, realized volatility 30% what it indicates is you are considering implied volatility. For example, 40% wall indicates implied volatility. 30 is realized volatility. Out of these two values, what is the value I need to consider when I'm hedging? If you consider 44 which is implied volatility. This is how it's going to look like. This is this is one simulation that was done from the day one till the end of the day. You see multiple plots, right? These are just multiple iterations. These are Monte Carlo simulations, where, with certain variables, you get this plot, and for another variable, you get another plot for another set of variables. So we're just finding it for different variables. Instead of finding the outcome for a single path, we are trying to simulate for multiple path and just to get an idea of how this trade could go. So with different values, you got different outcomes. So how do we read this? Right? To understand this, let's try to compare with what happens. Instead of hedging, it implied volatility. If we hedge, it realized volatility. How would this particular simulation looks like? And this is how that simulation looks like. The same scenario, instead of hedging, it 40% which is implied we are hedging, it realized volatility. In that scenario, this is how it looks like. So what is happening here? There are two different observations here. The first observation is, if you see here, the maximum profit you're getting at end of the day or end of the year is almost $18,000 and the minimum is $2,000 and you see there are different ranges of outcomes right here the there is lots of dispersion or lots of variants when you are trying to predict where the pmdl could land. This is happening when you are actually using implied volatility, because we discussed, if I go to our notes,

Speaker 1  1:37:25  
whenever you're trying to capture the outcome perfectly, or more accurately, the final P and L, more accurately, you shouldn't use implied volatility, because if you're using implied volatility, as this plot shows You are getting multiple different values. But if I use realized volatility, it is not you see, most of the values are not as scattered, right? If you take an average, most of the values are almost closing about 8000 so this is what it means. What it means is when you simulate, when you try to study where this particular trade could go, if you use realized volatility for your calculations, for your hedging, then you will be able to act, get at least get a closer outcome for all the plots, right for a different variations, also, you're almost getting similar outcome, or not as variable as the implied volatility. So what it indicates is, if you want to capture what could be my final Pendle, and you don't care how the price is going to final pay handle, then in such case, you use realized volatility as your inputs for your hedging calculations. So this is why you see there is lots of variance. Or like, if you see what happens on day one, day two, day three, day four. There is lots of variance. So that's why the daily standard deviation is 230, $1 which is much higher than daily standard deviation when you're using implied volatility. This is where we are talking about mark to market. So to put all things together, to again, again, repeat, if you are caring about mark to market, then you use implied volatility to your inputs, and this is how it looks like when you use implied volatility, you would more accurately able to understand what happens every single day, but you get less control on where it could land. But if your outcome is to get more accurate representation of final P and L in such scenario, instead of using implied volatility, use the realized volatility so that even when you are dealing with multiple simulations, you might get lesser variance. Basically, outcome would be more closer to what it would be. But every single day. If you want to know what happens on day 150 let's say this day, you see lots of variance. This is extremely high. 8000 and this is actually a loss. So that's how you take a decision. It's not a theoretical one, but it's not completely technical one. There is no rule to say which one to take. You can take any. Thing, but it depends on what you are analyzing. Let's look at another way, right if you hedging it implied volatility. The same thing the final P and L you are getting as 4460, but the same thing if you are trying to understand what would happen when you are actually using realized volatility. So the standard deviation of final pay and delay is much less. So previously, standard deviation is 4460, that means this is all variable your final outcome could be. You might be expecting, maybe, on an average, if you're getting $1,000 it could either be 1000 plus 4460, or 1000 minus 4460, so if you don't want this much deviation in your final outcome, then you would want to use realized volatility. So when we I'm going to show you a case study on taking a trade and then trying to predict where the trade could go, that's where we can actually, you can actually solidify understanding of how these things plays out. So there is one more wrinkle here, this we discussed the last time, also, which is one of the assumptions of black jewels. Because we discussed, there is always a drift in

Speaker 1  1:41:15  
the way the prices moves. In the sense, when the prices are trending, you would always see the movement in the higher direction, right when you're using black souls model. It is not considering what is the current trend. It is only considering what is the current underlying price. What is capital S is one of the important inputs to your pricing model, but it is not considering what is the trend the price is because, see, let's, let's try to do a thought experiment. It is like the market is extremely bullish. Market is trending higher. And you know, what are all the premium values? Since you know historical premium, right? You know yesterday's premium values and today at different conditions, you're trying to predict as a as somebody who is trying to get an idea of what the premium could be, since you already know, the market is extremely trending high. You know, there is a higher demand for call. So you can actually get a ballpark number, like, for example, currently, market is trending up, and the call premium is $20 and if somebody asks you, if price goes up by $10 what could happen? You can say premium would also be at least above 500 right? Whatever the current value is, it would be above that. But Black Scholes model is not considering that. It is only considering the price point. So this is the reason why, whenever you are trying to model anything on volatility trading. We are talking about delta bands of delta. In this context, you can actually take some steps to kind of incorporate this. You don't need to sit and solve that partial differential equation by adding drift, etc. You can also take a calculated steps. I'll show you how these things can be taken. So maybe I would, okay, let me show you the outcome, and then give you a, probably an example of how these things are. Let's, let's pick one out of it. There is this table. We are going to reference this table in our case study again. But what it is telling is, if your position is short gamma, what it indicates is, let's say you have a short position, and if the market is trending, your volatility, by us for hedging, is low. I'll show you an example to tell you why this is the way this is so.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:33  
Let me take an example, example to understand or incorporate. Right let's say price is trending up,

Speaker 1  1:43:51  
strong bull market. In this scenario, current volatility, current volatility, is 50% and forecasted volatility, let's say 30% the same thing we have seen earlier. So in this scenario, the most natural way to trade is when we say current volatility, it is implied volatility, right? So you have seen the numbers and implied volatility, I'm just giving you some 50% because it's easy to visualize and calculate, and you used GARCH model, and your focus is 30% now you thought, Okay, this is a good scenario for me, because I know the volatility is going to fall. Maybe I'll give it 10% then we can say volatility is going to crash. How do I capitalize it? I take a short position short volatility. So maybe I would just take short position at higher premium and close my. Short at lower premium this, this is your volatility trade structure. But since we want to capitalize on this knowledge fabric we have, or this data point we have, we know the market is trending high. So now I'm going to give you two scenarios. See two scenarios, I'm going to show you on a plot itself, so that it's easy to understand. Let's take the same plot, right? Didn't log in? Yes. So if you take the same plot, my forecast, let's say I forecasted. Consider this as your premium. Okay, and I forecasted the premium is going to crash. So in this scenario, I can take two positions, either I can short here, maybe yes, I can short here, or I can short here. If you think objectively, if I consider this as position position one, position one, and consider this as position two. What is the better position to enter? Is it position one or position two? If I'm expecting the market to fall, let's say I'm expecting this. This is expected

Unknown Speaker  1:46:30  
price in 30 days, and I would consider this as screen.

Speaker 1  1:46:38  
If I'm expecting the price to fall in 30 days. I'm saying, Should I go ahead and short the market, or should I keep a limit order somewhere higher? If this is the scenario, and I know if the market is trending up, I would prefer to probably wait for some time, maybe have a chance to short it at higher position. The reason is, the higher you short, the the more your profit is. So here you are getting more profit than shorting. Here you can also short here. There is no harm. But the deal is, since the market is trending up, it would have made more sense if I'm talking here, right? Let's say, if you've seen market like this, let's say this is a scenario, and you know, market is extremely trending. Now my question will change a bit. I would say, in this scenario, would you actually go ahead and keep a market order at all time high, considering this as all time high, or should you actually have a limit order when you are dealing with this kind of a scenario, this is where you need to think. How did we decide to short at this price? Maybe, let's say I have a model that tells me 280 2.96 is where I need to short. Now, if I had to draw parallel to this particular thing, right here we are trying when the price is turning up. If your current volatility is 50% and forecast is 10% if this is similar to saying 280 2.92 right premium, 280, 2.92 I'm just trying to connect with the example. And this is like saying premium is what is number here? Two, one, 9.61 yes, so here my model is saying shorted to 82.92 so that you can close here. But we know inherently, there is a flaw in 50% the prediction that your volatility model give that is your model is not considering the drift that your underlying price path has, that means, innately, the market has a bullish push. So when the market has a bullish push, you can take a chance, and instead of shorting it to 82 I might keep a limit sell order at 300 because if my model is not considering the trend, then I might as well take a chance and short at higher price. The reason is, even though, if you short, here it might go till 300 or 310 and then fall back to two nine. So again, it comes to a decision where, how optimally you want to actually place your trades, because if you shorter 282, it goes 303 10, you're going to see losses in your position, right? And you don't know what might happen. It might spike up also, because there is an innate drift to the higher side. So this is a smart way to trade. The smart way to trade is when you say a market trend. When you say market trending up, if you want to go against the market, you want to be defensive, you want me to be you want to be a bit conservative, and you would want to buy as your positions lower. I'll clarify what I mean. What I mean is, if you are asked if your model says short at 280 2.92 consider this as let's say, 260 some like bias it lower like, if the price is 282 don't go ahead and sell at 282 maybe consider okay with the drift. This could be 300 that's where the lower bias comes in. Let me show you this again and try to

Speaker 1  1:50:40  
make sense whenever you're shorting gamma, when you're going against the market right when you're shorting volatility, if the market is trending up, if it is trending, the volatility bias for hedging is low. What it means is whatever volatility the model is asking you to short, maybe take a lower value and consider that is your volatility, or more practical sense, if it is trending up in your shorting, don't short pre actively at that point, maybe try to short it higher point. That's what it means. I'll show you one more example when we're talking about case study, so that it makes more sense. But this is the table you can refer to. So that, one more assumption, we have a black schole model, in a way, we can actually incorporate drift also if you do this, because even if you solve this PD equation and then come with something and then exact volatility value, it's not worth to take that effort instead. You can actually kind of bias it a bit and then get the same results. As I said, all these steps, right? We are talking about choosing implied volatility. We are talking about drift versus no drift. All these things we will revisit again in this class itself, but with a case study, so that it's more better connected when we do that? So last thing, let's say you have defined everything. You decided what volatility you want to hedge. You added your drift. It gave you some values. Also it gave you some delta band values. And you did your delta H and then, now it is time to close your positions. Right? Let's imagine it is the final day where on expiry, your closing in expiration, you would see some behaviors in your options positions. This is extremely important to discuss, because after all said and done, it is completely different from stock trading, not only the way you trade, but also the way the numbers appear on the expiration day. So let's try to see these things. There are particular patterns also you see on expiration day, instead of, instead of risking your position for this small pattern, if you know these patterns and you can handle your positions better. So let's see what they are. Essentially, it's it's important to optimally exercise your positions. There are different ways to do it. We are going to list them down. But the whole reason is, when you have made money, when you are about to make money, but when it is the final day, it's better to take some decisions so that market will not surprise you. You know one thing we discussed the last time. We do all the calculations based on traded value, but the on the expiry, all the calculations happens on market close, right? For example, if consider 3:15pm is what your closing price time is, right? That's the last trade you can place at 315 and by 315 we have seen this example the last time, also by 315 maybe your positions looks like positive, but when the exchange does its calculations and come up with a settlement price, suddenly you're in the money might become out of the money. You're at the money might not be at the money anymore. So for that very reason, you need to think what kind of positions you're putting and what are all the ways you actually want to close your positions. For example, this we have seen in the last 10 but again, this is not a theoretically bound way to calculate. But when you have an American option, then generally people will consider what is the impact of interest rate, and they will calculate the probability of it exercising early. But this doesn't consider us, because this is not completely practical, but let's try to see some different practical scenarios. What happens if you're closing a stock? What happens if you're closing a future, etc? And try to understand what are all the impacts of expiry date. So for example, you have a put position, you have a put on a stock. You have a stock and you have a put on it. The example is you. Average stock at $100 and you already own 120 put and the time to expiry is 30 days, and interest rate is 5% per annum. So in this scenario, you need to think what happens when you exercise on options, and what happens if you don't exercise and let it leave for expiry? There are two things that could happen. You need to think theoretically. Instead of putting money in risk free positions, right, if it is a risk free position, you're getting 5%

Speaker 1  1:55:31  
prime, right, if you don't take this risk of options, and if you just close your if you just put it in your risk free scenarios, maybe a savings bank account or a lower in interest and lower risk assets you would have anyway got 5% but you are taking the risk, not only the risk of losing money, also risk of losing that 5% you could have got if you just went ahead and put your money in your bank. So now the question is, Should I wait for 30 days? Or should I close it in 15 days? What is the commonsensical approach, right? If somebody asks you, you close your position in 30 days so that you can get whatever the market gives you, or you close your question 15 days when it is profitable, so that you can get that profit, and rest of the 15 days you can put it in your bank account, then the question comes, how much am I losing if I'm not trading options, or how much am I getting without taking this risk? So it's all a matter of what is the alpha you're losing. So for example, if you exercise early. So there are two things right, either you exercise your position, that means you close your position before expiry, or you wait till expiry day. So what's happening in this scenario is, if you close your position early and then probably try to earn your interest by putting in your bank account, then you know how much you would get, right? So this is what, this is the decision factor for you. By not exercising, we are forgoing this money we should exercise if options trading less than 49 cent or above intensity, what exactly it means is, I'll give you the scenario. I have shorted a put, so if I have shorted a put, I have two options. Option one, hold till expiry. If it is 30 days, let's say 30 days.

Unknown Speaker  1:57:36  
Option two, exercise my option. Exercise my option is simple. If I have shorted a put, I buy a put at

Speaker 1  1:57:54  
same strike, same expiry, so that I close your position, essentially. So the decision comes if you're making good amount of money already, if you're making good amount of money and your way in the money, then it's okay to actually hold your position till expired, or, I must say, till the last trading day. But if your position is not in the money, maybe your position is in loss, or if your position is at the money, then you need to think, Okay, what if I close my position? Or let's say you're making only small amount of profit. So currently, with your 5% interest rate, let's say you're getting $5 The next question is, with the same amount, let's say currently the market is at $100 on expiry, also, if it closes at $100 how much additional Alpha I'm getting if I'm able to get more than what I could get if I put it in a risk free effect asset, I'll go ahead and leave it till expiry. If I'm not getting the same amount, or at least that amount I'm going to get when I put it in risk free asset, then I don't hold till expiry. Instead, I go for an early exercise. That's the thought process. And the same thought process, you, sorry, the same thought process you would get everywhere. For example, if you have a call on a stock, right? If you have a call on a stock, then you need to think, in addition to the profit I'm going to get when a stock goes up. Is there any dividend that is there? Generally, dividend happens whenever there is a demand dividend, there is a record date, right? There is a recorded and there is a date at which the dividends are dispersed. It's almost like, let's say January 1 you bought an option, option, and then on an exercise day, if it is a delivery, then you get a stock into your team at account. So by getting that stock into your team at account on a expiry day, if you're also getting dividend, then you're getting additional money. If you are not getting dividend or enough dividend, then is it worth to. Hold it till expiry. Is a question. Let's see an example. Let's say you have an 80 strike call option on $100 stock. So the you you have a call option at 80 and currently the stock is at $100 so what is happening here? You're already in the money, right? You're already in the money, and the option is worth 20.10 this goes back to what we discussed in OTS two also, where whenever you have a premium, and the premium has two elements, intrinsic value and time value. Here already it is $20 in the money. So $20 out of 20.10 is intrinsic and then 0.10 is your extrinsic or time value. Now let's say there is a news that the stock is going to pay $1 dividend. Now the question is, if a stock is paying you $1 dividend. Now, in such scenario, in practice, it's observed that whenever there is a dividend, you see a drop in the price. And I'll

Speaker 1  2:01:10  
give you this example. And the same example, we will see stock is at $20 dividend. Uh, dividend is $1

Unknown Speaker  2:01:25  
so when this news is released on the day the dividend is dispersed, you see

Speaker 1  2:01:30  
a drop in price. This is a practical scenario that happens. The price would fall to $19 The reason is, the price would fall to $90 because dividend is something the company gives, instead of using that dividend amount as a capital and kind of increasing the value of company as a token of gratitude. Or you can say anything, but company will actually give back to investors who trusted them, who invested with them. So what market thinks is they could have used it as a profit making thing already. They're making profits that way. They're sharing some amount with you. They could have actually put it in their capital and then increase the business a bit higher instead of it. They're foregoing that profitability and then giving back to investors. For that very reason, the market will recalculate the fair value, and then it would come down by $1 Now the question comes, should you actually exercise your option if there is a chance and then get the dividend, or should you continue to hold your position so that your positions will fall by $1 so this is what happens. Let me go to this example again. So if you exercise, let's say there is a chance to exercise. And if you exercise, the intrinsic value become $19 earlier, it was $20 but the price falls by $1 because of dividend. And if you exercise, you get 19 intrinsic and one dividend. If you don't exercise, then what happens? You lose your money, right? Or the premium will come down by $1 because underlying stock fell. So it is 19.10 so here comes the question, if you close in this scenario, you would get $20 because you are getting intrinsic value and also $1 dividend. If you don't close your position and hold it, then you would get 19.1 dollar. So this is exercising is better. So what is happening is when the dividend is more than extrinsic value. Here the extrinsic value is 0.1 so if you want to forego the optionality, the time value, and then close it early. You would do it if you are getting more dividend than time value at this moment. That only makes sense, right? Only when you are able to get more money. Now, by foregoing the optionality, you would go ahead with it. If not, you don't take this trade and then continue to take, continue to hold your position. See all these things, not only this, when you're talking about dividend capture, right? There are different ways to capture dividend. In fact, there are ways that are quite common that happens in OTC Markets, over the counter markets, where you and me can collaborate, and I would say I would want to buy deep in the money call spreads, and why don't you sell them to me so that when there is a dividend, our positions will go up, so that I can actually make money. We can have some kind of a collaboration like that. But these are actually not valid when there is something like SEBI or any regulatory in picture. But in general, you can also buy in the money calls. And also you can expire, right? Like if you have a deep in the money call, if you want to exercise early, there should be somebody who wants to buy it from you, because everybody knows there is dividend. It's not the only information limited to you, right? Everybody knows that. But if you there is an over the counter market, and if you. Who are the buyer, and also if you know some seller, then maybe you can buy deep in the money and then take advantage. But in all practical scenarios, we are the traders that actually do trading on exchanges regulated by SEBI or any other regulator, right? So these things wouldn't work, but the previous approach we discussed, which is, if you have to decide whether to exercise a call or not, you can do the simple math and take a decision, then that same thing, you would have done it in future, also, right? We have to simplify this a bit. Let's say you have a future. If you have a long future, and you have two things, either you can close your future before expiry, or you can hold it till expiry. Then again, the question comes, what do you do if you close it early? Because whenever you are thinking about options trading, you think it has your business. If you have a capital, you always think, am I paying some kind of an interest for this capital? Am I recovering that interest, or am I losing some opportunity, right? Instead of taking a risk and buying future, would have put the money and then earn some kind of a minor interest

Speaker 1  2:06:13  
from a risk free asset. So whenever we are taking a trade, you don't think like this, because you did your analysis and you took a decision to take this risk when you are managing your trade, when you are optimizing the way to exit, there comes a decision, should I hold for two, three additional days or not? Holding two, three additional days? Would it increase my risk? Would it increase my reward or not? Or is it worth it or not? So essentially, if your interest income is more than time value, then you can definitely go ahead and close your position, but if you're not getting more interest than what your future might deliver as returns, then you can actually close your positions only on expiry date. So it's actually a simple, commonsensical approach, but we go for expiry day, ideally, right? Because what happens when we are dealing with European options? If you are dealing with American options, then you can think, okay, maybe 20th of this month there is a dividend that is coming. So why don't I close my positions early? It's actually a practical decision you can take when you have an American options. But when you have a European options, you can't take delivery of positions on any day, what, wherever you want. You can't exercise ready right for that scenario. You would only lean into expiration trade. Or you can close your positions, as we said, if you have a short put, you can have a long put and nullify your position. That you can do. But taking a delivery is not possible at any day you want when you have European option, when you have European option, you need to strategize for expiration, trading or nullifying your positions, as we discussed. That is, that is anyway there at any when, whenever we have a premium based trade, you have a long position in a call, you bought it for $1 and suddenly you want to hold for 30 days. Suddenly, next day, the premium went to $10 then not people want to nullify. They would close their positions by buying back the call. If you have a short position, you would buy back your call, and then you basically nullified your position. You don't need to wait till expiry, because you instantly increase your capital, or value of a capital, from $1 to $10 so why would you wait till expiry? But more often than not, we would actually take positions in options for the fact that you want to hold till expiry, let the access, let the exchange do the settlement. With that scenario, we would approach the volatility trading, isn't it? Because when you're talking about volatility trading, you are not talking about impact of price. You're talking about the difference between implied and realized volatility. In such case, expiration trading is what more relatable to us, more important to us to understand this scenario, most of the time, more often than not, most of the options will become worthless on the day of expiry, because there is not enough time for the option to move right. So who would go ahead and buy the options? So for that very reason, if the position is already in the money, it just moves like stock. So on the expiry day, almost the delta becomes one. And if the stock goes up by 10 rupee, your position also will go by 10 rupee if it is in the money. But if it is out of the money, it is worthless, right? Because who would go ahead and buy out of the money options on an expiry day, almost nobody until you have some other complex positions that you want to hit. Ideally, if you have a position which is already out of the money, there are very, very, very, very less chances that that out of the money will become in the money on that expiry itself. So these. These are all the behavioral traits that options holds on expiry, because you need to understand it, because as you move forward, you would only see options Greeks. We talk only at the terms of Greeks, right? We say I have $100,000 data position, or I will say I have $1,000 Vega position. We talk in terms of Greeks, but on expiry, because of this weird movements of in the money and out of the money, the Greeks might not completely make sense. If you look at it in a quick glance, you might see some Greeks going extremely high yesterday. Maybe they might be at some value today. They might increase by 10 times or 20 times, which doesn't make sense, but it makes sense on expiry day, because on expiry day, all the in the money will become just like underlying you suddenly see the delta values going to one, and you suddenly see extremely out of the money values become worthless. Also, that doesn't tell you that, okay, there is something wrong with your calculations. Or maybe I've given you some code. Maybe you might think maybe something wrong with the code.

Speaker 1  2:11:04  
It's just that the way they actually behave on expiration date. For example, there is a pattern that is there, which is called pinning, and which also leads to pin risk. But I'll show you an example. What exactly is the pinning is right? Let me take a letter.

Speaker 1  2:11:34  
I would take NSC index, because most of the times this has more data than what we have.

Unknown Speaker  2:11:44  
So let me take this option chain, right? So let's consider this option chain and this particular index, which is nifty,

Speaker 1  2:11:57  
the underlying was trading at 25571, and these are all the contracts that are available. So as you could see, if it is trading at 25571, then the out of the at the money contract is 25550, the money means the contract which has the strike price closer to the current trading price of underlying. So these 2550, is more closer to 571 than 600 right? This is your item, but this particular contract is closing on 24th Feb. This is data till 20th Feb, and this is expiring on 24th Feb. Now, what is pinning on? Pinning on the day the expiring we since we discussed the way the settlement happens, right? So there is a, always a risk that, if you see here, you could see till 333 30 is when the closing price was calculated. But 330 is not the price you were open to trade. You are not you're not eligible to trade at that time only till 315 depending on your broker, some broker will allow till 317 depending on a broker, you would not close. You will not trade at this price or at this particular time, but you would have only option to trade before this. So let's say before this. This is 2000 256, 100. So suddenly, when this is to 25,600, at, let's say 3:15pm, where you can actually trade the last time, your position might become in the money. But when the market actually settles when the exchange calculates the price would change, and suddenly your positions might become out of the bin. So how do we actually counter this? We can counter this by understanding a concept called pinning. The pinning is a behavior where, more often than not, the close price the settlement price on the expiry would be extremely close to at the money, or sometimes same as at the money. So that is actually one behavior that was seen. Let me show you what exactly theoretically it means. Sorry. So what it theoretically means is, on the day of expiry, the underlying will settle near a strike, more randomness would imply So previously, for example, when we are talking about at the money, then we since the current market is at 571 and if you have 550 as well at the money. More often than not, it might close at 550 than 571 that's that's exactly what I want to say. So if the trading today would have been a trading day, and if today is an expiry day, you would see similar prices at the money and also at current trading price. So that's what this pinning means. That. The line will settle near a strike, more randomness would imply we generally would think that is just mere randomness. But if you see on the expiry day, then you would see the at the money contract strike price and the current trading price would almost be exactly identical. So how do we use this, right? So if the market settles at a strike, it can be very difficult to predict which option will be exercised, isn't it? So for example, for example, let me go to this only you have a long position

Speaker 1  2:15:33  
and current the market. Let's say this is 315, and the market did not close it. Now you can take a safe bet. You can think either the market would close at 2550, or 256, 100, but not in between, because today is an exercise, exercise day. Then you can take a calculated guess, Should I close my position exercise maybe an hour early, or should I leave for the exchange to settle and go for expiry? So just like previously, we thought, sure, is it worth the risk to go ahead for exchange based expiry, or should I take things into my own control and exercise by myself by canceling my position? So here you have an additional data point. In addition to whatever you see on screen, you can also think that more often than not, my position, the underlying would actually close either at 550 or 600 because there is a pinning pattern that tells me more often than random, my positions are going to exercise at the price, strike price you see here. It could be 405 50, any price. But since I know this market, I know within an hour it might not move like 100 points or 200 points at that point. So depending on the market you're trading. But the takeaway here is these wrong numbers you see is what the underlying would close on exercise day or an expiry day. Technically, then 571 here it closed at 571 because 20th Feb is not the exercise day or expiry, the last trading day of this contract, since it is before the expiry, since it is before 24th Feb, it just closed at a price where it is. You can't see it on strikes, but on an exercise day, more often than random, you can see historically. Also, maybe you, if you want, you can observe it on 24th Feb and also next expiries. Also, it would close, very close. Maybe 551, or 550, or 549, very close to what you see here. So that's one more data point that going to help us when you try to optimize how to trade or how to close your positions on expiry. And the last, but not least, before we go for before we discuss the case study, I know most of the positions are settled cash, right? There is always an option of physical settlement. So let me give you bit of an idea of what these two things are, what happens on an expiry day, and how do you take a decision of cash settlement versus physical settlement? But I would want to go beyond what you see on slides, because I know there are some commodity traders also. So let's try to think cash settlement versus physical settlement. So first, let's try to define what these are. These two things are depending on what contract you're trading. I mean what asset you're trading, be it commodity or futures, and what region or exchange you're trading, it could either be cash settlement or physical settlement. Let me show you what it is. So if you have a call option right

Unknown Speaker  2:18:54  
on expiry, there are two ways it could settle. Let's say call option entry at $100

Unknown Speaker  2:19:05  
excess expiry price. Price is at, let's say one $20

Speaker 1  2:19:12  
so what happens is, if it is cash settlement, if it is cash settlement, you would directly get the difference between 101 20, right? You ended at 100. But this is the premium. Let me actually write it, premium, entry and expiry, premium. So the difference is $20 if the exchange is allowing cash settlement, you automatically get $20 into your trading account, and that's about it, right? But if you have an option for physical settlement, in physical settlement, you don't get this $20 into your account. Rather, you would get a call. You would get a physical delivery of the underlying if it is on a stock what is theoretical? DEF? Definition of a call option. The call option, theoretical definition is you have an option to buy a stock at $100 if the call options with the strike of $100 then at an expiry, you have an option to buy it at $100 since it is trading at $100 in physical settlement, you get $100 stock into your DMAT so instantly you make $20 but it is not realized, isn't it, because you would get one more additional stock into your DMAT account. If you want to make money again, you go ahead and sell it in the market at 120 and you make this $20 these are the two ways the settlement happens. One is canceled, and second is physical settlement. But there are implications of this physical settlement, right? Because here you're getting one position. Here you're actually closing your positions. There are no positions left. But here there is a position that is not closed. Here there is an open long position. So if you don't close it, maybe next day, if market crashes, then you're going to lose your money. Because theoretically, if you have this $100 stock in your record, you instantly make $20 but this is realized only when you again went into the market and closed at $20 which essentially can't happen on the expiry day, right? Because after settlement, you can't trade. It only the next day you can do there are other implications also, but they are more pronounced when you have a when you're trading commodities instead of stock. Let's say commodity call option right commodity, call option with a strike of $100 now, what happens in commodity? What is the additional things that are happening? If it is cash settled, same thing that happens, you get $20 but if it is physical settlement, you get $100 worth of inventory. Delivered. Now there are multiple things that happens. It depends on what Commodity Exchange you're trading. Either you would be shipped the amount of physically settled commodity to you, so that you need to bear the shipping charges, or there are some exchanges that also kind of holds the inventory in there warehouses for you, and you want to pay the charges for the rent, right? Well, if somebody is holding your inventory, you need to pay the inventory holding charges. So if you are going for physical settlement, there are additional things that comes into play, which you should be clear about, because without that, if you don't know, and then if you are just trading and or if you're assuming it is only cash settled, then it's going to be a problem. But for stocks, most of the major exchanges are going for cash settlement, which is a good thing. And most of the traders also in commodities also, it is physically settled, but it is not common across the world, and there are exchanges that go for physical settlement also. And there are cases in the past. You can actually Google it. There are many cases in the past, traders made extremely good profit while trading a commodity, and they leave it for expiry, but the next day, they see it shows huge loss in their ledger record, because the exchange would have actually charged you for the delivery, or they would have charged you ranked for holding your inventory that you took a physical delivery of. So these are just two points that that actually more nuanced than what you think, right, because cash settlement versus physical settlement being one different. But I see most of the exchanges you do as a retail trader, there will there will be no physical settlement. Most of them are cash settled only. But I see now the global market is more and more open. I see even inexperienced traders venturing into more complex commodity options also. So you

Speaker 1  2:23:57  
should be careful about that. Last but not least, one more reminding factor that on an expiry, or, as I said, Your Greeks might not make look a bit weird, might look more exposed, but it's not the case. It's just that on an expiry, different contracts behave differently. So essentially, it just shows you more dynamic values, we would see extreme changes in Greeks as the day went in, and then as you are more and more closer to expiry of let's say five minutes before expiry, 10 minutes before expiry. So, but yeah, as I said, in a more practical sense, just 10 minutes before expiry. Nobody is going to calculate their Greeks and take positions. But don't let it catch you, of course, like it's just a common pattern. So that's that's about all the ingredients we need to kind of structure a volatility trade. This is just a natural progression of what we discussed in OTS four, where we are forecasting. Volatility and structuring it, right? But now we are also, we also added a hedge. Yeah, so added a hedge factor because it's not always about straddle such angles, right? If it is about straddles and triangles, more often than not, you're already the risk of delta is not there because the positions itself is canceling out impact of price for you, there are pure volatility trades. Now we are going to see an example where we would do all the steps we are done in OTS three and sorry, Otis four and OTs five, until now and then formulated trade. Before we take a trade, we will also try to evaluate the risk of the trade, maybe move, make some changes to the trade, and then see what had happened after you take a trade and evaluate also. So this is where we're going to take some break. But just to give a peek of what we are going to discuss after, maybe after 10 minutes, essentially, we are going to discuss what is a good trade, and how do you pre plan your trade? Right? These things we are going to discuss. And after that, we are going to see some pitfalls also, like, what are the mistakes we do when we are doing strategy comparison, and what are all the performance metrics you're going to see? So with this in mind, after we discuss the performance, then we put everything together with a case study. We're going to take a case study of selling spy options, and then we are going to do some analysis, like from the very beginning, right from what we discussed in OTS. For all the steps, how do you choose an expiry? How do you choose a strike price? Then how do you calculate delta bands for that particular trade? Then how do you forecast the risk? All these things we are going to discuss and end the trade. So let's take probably 10 minutes break, and we are going to come back to this particular concept of trade evolution, where we first discuss how to evaluate a trade, and then we take an example of all the things we discussed in these two lectures, we are going to put it in a case study. So let's get back in 10 minutes. As I said before, in these 10 minutes, any doubts you have, just type it out. And after the lecture, if there are any unanswered questions, I'm going to take it so let's meet in 10 minutes.

Speaker 1  2:36:34  
Hi everyone. Let's spend some time on how to evaluate our options traits, and then we jump into a case study.

Speaker 1  2:36:50  
First of all, if there are any open questions, I'm going to take them after the delivery of the lecture and essentially see now, let's try to brainstorm few ideas, right? Because from now for next five minutes, there is no theory theory, but it's all about how to structurally think when you have a trade in hand, or an idea or a strategy in hand, because these three things are different, right? When we say an idea, it's just a hypothesis, an idea could be I see, for example, I've seen one pattern in the markets. I extensulated. I used to trade in LME, and I was to trade in NSC. So in LME, one of the patterns I've seen, I've seen that whenever there is a bullish trend, I see every 2030, seconds, there is a big order with the same quantity. Because I used to trade using order book. I used to, used to find some patterns in order book and try to take advantage of them, right? But that is, again, an idea, because that doesn't mean that it's a trade or a strategy, because when I'm trading, I would actually try to substantiate that with some analysis. Okay, when is it happening? Is it happening on an expiry day, or is it only happening on a very first day of the month? And then I might take some trades, but again, the trade doesn't mean that it is a strategy, because the strategy will come with a discussion of what happens if that particular pattern breaks, or even if the pattern sustains, how do I strategize my entries and exits? So there is always a difference. So if I had to talk at a basic level, if I'm talking about a trade, then it is about what is a innate characteristic of a trade that will categorize it as a good trade, right? In general, we have a tendency to think a trade that gives me money is a good trade, but that is actually wrong, because you need to think beyond a single trade you already you also need to think, what happens if I repeatedly do this trade maybe 100 times, right? So essentially, you are not going to get profit out of these 100 trades every single time. You need to think, okay, maybe 50% of times, or 60% of the times the profit the trade is going to be profitable. Then how would my overall equity curve looks like? So these are all the discussions that happens right now in next five minutes. And the very first thing is, if I have a trade, if I could repeatedly do the trade for n number of times, let's say in this plot, you can see it is done for 40 times, right? So how should my equity curve looks like? Essentially, it should look like this. So it we should not always see there is this common mistake what people do. I will just write this down so that it's easier to understand what is a good trade. Right? You. First thing mistake validating trade or strategy using CAGR or cumulative returns. I know whenever we talk we talk about CAGR. I know most of the funds, hedge funds, or any kind of saps, etc, talk about CAGR, but the whole point is CAGR, it's a bit better than cumulative returns. But if I had to talk about cumulative returns, maybe at the beginning of the trading scenario, maybe five, six trades got extremely good profit. Then your equity curve would have got good head start, and it might look very profitable to you, but it's actually a unidimensional way to understand a strategy. You should not always take decision based on cumulative returns. You can't compare two strategies and say, I'm going to pick a better cumulative return strategy. That is, that is not a holistic way to approach if you want to consider if it is a good trade or a good strategy, you should see how the progression of your equity curve is. For example, in this you started with zero and you ended it 1.5 right? It looks like a good P and L curve, but it is good even I support it, not because it went from zero to 1.5

Speaker 1  2:41:22  
so because the way it went right, because if you see how many times, how many trades, or how long did you stay below zero, is one metric I would see. And essentially, for couple of trades, it stayed below zero, and quickly it went above zero, and then it went up. But that not not only that, how deep it went when it is actually making loss. But it's not only about below zero, above zero, also, for example, you see there is a drawdown. Here it went from 1.75 to 1.5 dollar. And essentially it went to 1.25 right? So there is a pull from 1.75 to 1.25 this is called as drawdown. Whenever you see a pullback, that's called as drawdown, and the maximum of the drawdown is called maximum drawdown. So that essentially tells you, at any point, what is the amount of loss you can expect from the current account value. If current, current value is $100 how deep it can fall from $100 before it crosses $100 these are the questions we would ask. And at a most basic level, it should be. It should be trending up, just like any other good trending stock, your equity curve also should trend up, and you can't expect it to grow from 0.15 in a vertical line, right? Even if, even if you ask me Varun, I have a strategy that actually went from zero to 1.5 in a slant way, in a more vertical way, let's say more vertical way. I wouldn't prefer that, because I would want consistent outcomes from the trades. If I could repeat the trade, it should consistently give me profit, and essentially it should have good win to loss ratio. I'm okay if I'm doing 30% of times, sometimes I'm okay if I'm losing 40% of times. Also, as long as I'm getting more profits when I'm winning than losses I'm when I'm losing. Right? So these are all the nuances we are going to see. But first of all, you need to come up with a baseline, right? You need to see if I I'm just saying I'm okay if I lose 40% of times, because, in my mind, I have a baseline, I have a baseline. But how do you come up with a baseline, right? You can't just guess it. You can't just say, I have a strategy which has good backtest results. When I say, when we say, good, maybe you're seeing some positive number as a cumulative return. And then go ahead, you can't do that in or you can't be completely theoretical. Also theoretical. Thing is, like, you have a research paper, and in research paper, it showed you maybe 70% of the profit every year, like 70% CAGR. And then you can't actually bank on all these things. That's what I'm saying. In addition to that, you need to be more advanced. For example, what if, if we evaluate a single rate right? What? What is the wrong in it? Like, for example, there may be some trades which you can only take once every week or once every month, that doesn't help you. You need to have statistically at least, maybe 100 rates. At least if I'm back testing your strategy, I would make sure at least there are 100 trades. But I know not. Majority of you might not be good with program programming like Python, or not already well versed with coding, back testers. So for that very reason, if you are a manual trader, the best way to start is to start making your journal. Right. Start making your trade journal. I have my trade journals. I started journaling from 2015 but I started trading much earlier, but my journey. Journaling, the rigorous journaling, like every hour, I used to note down what was the expected move and what had happened, and what is my MDM, and I should drop patterns from it that actually helped me to become a better intraday trader, because I was working as a professional intraday trader then. But as I move forward, I kind of automated all these things now I have my engines which write my own journals for me. Now we have agents. We have llms, we have agentic so I kind of automated in a much intuitive way right now. But it doesn't matter whether you are using llms or a agentic way of approach, or a Pythonic programming approach, not manually writing it. Try to kind of maintain a journal. If you are back testing anyway, you have a journal, right? If you are back test, you have a list of trades. If you are live trading or paper trading, maintain the journal. But having a journal doesn't solve anything. How do you actually use it? The very first thing is,

Speaker 1  2:45:58  
the very first thing you're going to observe is you will lie. Trades are going to be a bit different from back tested trades. There are two simple reasons for it. While we are back testing, we don't consider a concept called slippage, so slippage is nothing. But if you you've seen a pattern in your backtest, and you bought it at $100 you want to buy it $100 you assume you bought it $100 but when you are actually trading, you can't actually, in all scenarios, buy it the price you want. If you see a simple pattern, like a moving average, and you waited till the crossover, and you want to buy it, that crossover, everybody sees the crossover, and then, more often than not, you're not going to get an entry. So that's why we try to keep some limit orders above the current price, or, sorry, above the price you want, or maybe play place and market order. But essentially, the takeaway here is backtested results and future results are going to be different for that reason, which is slippage. The second important reason is there are many strategies. You can see lots of tier sheets online. Also you can see strategies online. If you go to Quantopian, you see lots of back strategies, even in quant industry web pages or quantity blocks. Also, you see lots of strategies which are academically backed by hypothesis theory, and you find links to research papers on also on core industry website. But the problem is, you're not the only person who is trying to deploy the strategy along with you. There are many people who are deploying the same strategy. For that reason, the strategy is going to lose its alpha. It's going to lose its profit making ability. For the simple reason, if everybody is trying to buy at the same price based on same model, definitely you're not going to get a fill. You might place an order, but market might not fill your order. It might move up. So these things you should keep in mind. But how do you evaluate a strategy with all these things in mind, right? You need to think in a multi dimensional way. The simple thing is, at least, you need to know how frequent your trades are. Because I know there are many traders at a beginning level, they would start with a Moving Average crossover, maybe 50 day and 21 day Moving Average crossover, and then they might backtest it on a very famous stock, like if it is US markets. They might do it on Apple, and then they might deploy it on other other stocks also. But the frequency, the frequency at which you get that entry signal, is depending on the phase the market is in. If it is a bull phase, you might not get that as many triggers, which is a good thing. But whenever you get a trigger, you get a good profit. If it is range bound, then you might get false triggers also. So you need to understand how many trades you're getting, maybe per year or a month, and on an average, what is the P and L, how many percentage of the trades you're getting a profit? And if you're getting what is the average profit? All these things you need to clearly understand. This is at a minimum level, right? There are, I know you can do n number of analysis.

Speaker 1  2:49:11  
Personally. Currently, I'm working as a head of product and which we have multiple ml models that has different strategies and different tier sheets where we try to understand, before we take any model life, we try to understand how that model, that a model, worked when there is a bearish phase in the market, bullish phase in the market, and when there is an extremely heightened level of volatilities, how those trades are working, and try to understand how they will work in the future. Also, because just merely saying, within my last 10 years, I have a very, extremely good win rate, that doesn't tell you full picture you need, because last 10 years is a mix of multiple market conditions, right? More importantly, from December, the market condition has changed because the behavior we are seeing in. Is at least from second half of December till first of Jan, that particular period or a beginning of Feb. Also across the global market, it is a bit different. There is high end level of volatility. There is lots of uncertainty. Most of the markets actually went up, but then sustained there. Then we don't know whether they would pull back or not, but when we actually look back in 2017, or just two months before covid, similar scenario had happened that gave us an insight of what we could expect from this market. So what I'm saying is there is no theoretical way to properly evaluate a strategy, but the thought process is evaluate from multiple angles. But how do you define these angles? Right? Simple, get multiple reward metrics and risk metrics and get multiple ratios also. Let's see what they are. But for example, if you have this right, if somebody gives you two strategies, if you just look at what happens when there is a profit per year, what is a profit at a basic level, you might think strategy A is good because it is giving you higher profit than strategy B, but if you see strategy B is winning 90% of times, right? But strategy is only winning 30% of times. I'm not saying strategy A is bad, but somebody might look at profit per year. Somebody might look at win rate. If somebody is only looking at win rate, then again, they would lose the complete picture. Because why do we have extremely high profit, even though the win rate is less, that is telling you, when you are winning, you are getting extremely good profits. You are getting $4 if you are losing, you're losing $1 right? But in strategy B, if you are getting win, if you have win, even though 90% is your win rate, you're only getting $1 but when you're losing, you're losing $8 so there is a detail in each metric I can't tell you which is a good strategy with a single metric. Now I need to strategize. One thing I learned from my trading experience, irrespective of what your metrics are, there is always an idea that deploys this strategy optimally. If I were given a chance, I would deploy both strategies, but I would do detailed analysis. What happened during a bullish phase? Which strategy worked better in a bullish phase. Of course, it's quite intuitive that bullish phase would have resulted in profit for A and B also, then I would think what is happening in a difficult scenario. It's where, if it is a momentum based strategy, if it is extremely volatile scenario, then which is holding better, which is giving me less losses when there is heightened volatility in the market. I'm just taking a simple example, but let's see how we do it. So very first thing is to come up with your performance metrics. So this thing we discussed the last time, also when we are contextualizing volatility, same philosophy comes in when you are strategizing performance metrics, where you need to put the context right. Because, irrespective of what metrics you use, if you properly put it in a context, I will give an example of a context I have a strategy which is profitable in range bound markets, but not so profitable in, let's say, trending markets, then I would make decision to deploy it only when I see range one behavior, isn't it? So this is how you put it in context. For example, there are risk ratios, which you and me know, everybody knows what a sharp ratio is. At least you would have heard the term, right. But then, why do we need a ratio? What is a sharp ratio? What is any kind of a ratio. Why do we need to do it? Because whenever we are trying to achieve profit from a trade, innately, we are also assuming we are okay with certain kind of a risk. But what is the risk? The question you need to

Speaker 1  2:53:54  
the answer you need to search for is, if I risk $1 how many dollars Am I getting? That's essentially what a sharp or any kind of ratios will tell you, but with bit more nuances, right? For example, sharp pressure will tell you what is the excess return divided by volatility. Excess return means if, if my interest risk free interest rate is 5% in the sense, if I just put my money in bonds, or maybe put it in my bank account and I earn my interest. If it is 5% then definitely I should make more than 5% isn't it? Or else, all this analysis, all this time, taking processes, doesn't worth anything. So that is why sharp ratio has excess returns in the numerator, which is the returns you get minus the interest rate or risk free rate. But what is the denominator? It is the risk you are defining any ratio. In numerator you have written and in denominator you have risk sharp ratio has standard deviation of die. Returns as risk you can you can actually come up with your own thing, but there are issues with sharp ratio also, because I'll tell you what those issues are. Let me actually show you sharp ratio formula,

Speaker 1  2:55:19  
average returns minus risk free rate by standard deviation of daily return. So what it means is, if I'm risking $1 in from defining this as if you're missing $1 how much? How many dollars Am I getting on top of the risk free rate. This is what it means. But the issue with it is, if you have extremely variable daily returns, then your sharp pressure is going to be low. So if your volatility of your daily returns are high, sharp price is low. But you may say that is a good thing, Varun, because I don't want extremely volatile daily returns. But the problem is, what if the returns are extremely good? Take, for example, 1% minus 1% 5% 2% minus 3% if I use this, my sharp ratio is going to be a bit bad. But what if my returns are like this, 4% 10% 40% 80% 2% maybe like this, even for this, also, my sharp ratio is going to be bad, because

Speaker 1  2:56:33  
my volatility here, the standard deviation is extremely high in the denominator, Right? For that very reason, sharp ratio will give you a bit of an idea. But even if you have extremely good trades, but if they are volatile, then sharp ratio is going to penalize it. This detail, you need to actually carefully see what is the deviation. Why are we getting extremely high standard deviation? Is it negative losses or extremely high profits? Both scenarios, it is going to give less value. But that is a actually a funny thing, because not many people will go deep and see what it is. They will talk at length on sharp ratio, but it's all about how it is constructed, right? See, volatility penalizes large moves as heavily as down moves. It doesn't matter where you're getting volatility from, right your daily returns can be extremely volatile because you're making extreme losses or extreme profits. Also, so that you need to be careful about and on top of it, there are other ratios also, like, for example, if you don't want to just bank on volatility of returns as risk in denominator, you can use maybe maximum loss right or standard deviation of losses itself, instead of considering standard deviation of losses and wins. Since, you know, sharp ratio has that difficulty to kind of get you the right number, why don't you just get standard deviation of losses only? That you can do that is called a sort you know, somebody else might come up with an idea. Why don't I consider maximum drawdown as my risk? That is called common ratio. There are many things right. Say, Sterling ratio. You do the same thing for numerator, but in denominator, you take average of last three drawdowns, or largest trade drawdowns. So it depends on you, how you define your risk it, you should be extremely clear about it. See, the success in trading comes in extremely vigilant on how you're evaluating. Because if you're evaluating based on something and then the returns, once you get the returns you're evaluating on something else, that doesn't make sense, because I know when I made this mistake. I used to use 100 metrics before I take any strategy live. But then once I take my strategy only profit used to be metric. I only used to care whether it made profit or loss, and I used to think, Okay, if it didn't make profit, then it is a bad strategy, but only with the experience I came to know my metrics for the entry and exit should be right. I shouldn't be emotional about it like they both. Should go and hang together only then I can see how I can optimize it. So let's see what exactly are we trying to achieve here, right? More than metrics. Metrics, the main issue with metrics is it is telling you what happens overall, but it should also tell you how consistently you're making money. It's not about making extremely high profits and extremely high losses. And on an average, you're doing good, no how controlled your losses are and how continuously actually you're making money. There are different ways to do it. I mean, you can use some kind of a t test to understand whether my returns are on an average. See there is no distribution that we know, right? Like, I can't just tell you if my returns, like, I've shown you a plot, right? I can't tell you just make sure your plot also looks the same. I can't tell you that. Instead, I can take some random samples from my trades and see if averages are same. That is one kind of a test. But there. Are different, different ways to test it. But the main point is, I know this is all statistical, but for you to make more sense, one tidbit I can give you is see how they are working in bull period, bear period, and also range one period, and see if the averages are same. If on an average, of course, bull returns will be extremely high, but if you see risk right, how is your drawdown when there is a bearish phase, and how is your drawdown when there is no momentum in the market? If I'm talking about momentum trading, if I had to put it for volatility trading, right, then you also need to think, if there is an extremely high, volatile scenario, how is my strategy working? Because volatility is your driving factor. That you should be clear about. You can't always use sharp ratio. That that is a very bad practice, because if I have a momentum model, it makes sense for me to use sharp ratio. If I have a volatility based trade, why would I go ahead and just take sharp ratio as my measure? Instead, I should see if I'm getting 10% volatility increase, how much Alpha am able to get that is more sensible thing. So the whole point is, if you finding an edge is very difficult in the market, but there are ways to get it. There are statistical edges, there are theoretical edges, there are behavioral edges that people find it. For example, now we've been talking about volatility trade. We spoke about how to trade during earnings. We spoke about how to trade during weekends. Those are all, I must say, a scenario based ranges, right? If that scenario shows up, then you would try to optimize and then try to get some alpha out of it. I can't just combine that with some other trade, trade metric. And then, say, I took 100 trades, some more momentum, some more volatile, volatility based and on an average, I'm getting this much. That is actually a very bad way to kind of understand how your performance is, how your performance of a strategy is. You need to define, I have strategy A, these are the trades? Have strategy B data the trades. And then within the purview of strategy A, is it good or not? You can't just take a volatility strategy and then compare with metrics of momentum strategy. That's essentially what I'm saying. So let's try to come up with a meta analysis. So the whole point, the main point here is, as you can see on screen, you don't get paid to be an all rounder, right? Every person as a trader has their behavioral trades. I've seen traders who take extreme levels of risk, which almost look stupid on the paper, but they are better profitable traders than me. I've seen many traders which are very conservative, which go by books, which doesn't look profitable at this moment, but as you as the years grow, they are the ones who sustained extremely worse markets. Because if there are momentum traders, how many times you see momentum the markets, I don't know, maybe 30% of the times. Then what do you do in x of the 70% of the times, right? That's where your success lies in. So this is why, whenever you're also going to do some kind of analysis, now, whenever you try to do a meta analysis, come up with theoretically, what are the strengths and weaknesses of your strategy, and then have an opinion whether it is actually playing by its strengths or not, and kind of measure its performance during its strong periods and weak periods. It's okay if a strategy loses money, you can also stop your strategy when the market is bearish, right? It's quite common practice. You add more capital when the market has good momentum, and then you kind of keep it in the shadows when the market has no momentum. That is also okay. But at the analysis level, you need to do that only then you need to do it in live trading. So let's try to put all these things together, and let's try with an example. So let's take this example of volatility trading itself. We want to collect variance premium. Then how are we going to collect there are different ways, right? If you expect volatility to go up, you buy options and then sell it when it goes up. Or if you believe volatility is going to crash, you can sell options and then once the volatility crashes, you can buy back. So let's take an example, a common example, of selling options, because you know, more often than not, there is always implied volatility. Is always greater than realized volatility. So let's take this example. So these are all the things you need to do. You need to select an expiration. That is point one, because there is weekly expiry, monthly expiry, two, three months expiry, daily expiry, also. So if you want to sell options here, sell SPR simply find it options and collect variance premium. First you need to decide the expiration. Then you need to decide what is the structure right? How many calls, how many puts? Is it a straddle strangle? How am I going to decide the combination of options I have and what are those strike prices? Then the next thing is, how do you choose a hedging methodology? Am I going to use implied volatility to calculate my hedging Delta? Or should I use realized then we need to kind of calculate expected profit without that. That's if you don't know what you're expecting from a volatility trade, or any kind of a trade, then you don't have an edge stick of how it worked once the trade is closed. So expect, calculate the expected profit, but to don't stop there, don't get a number like I'm expecting $1,000 from it. Expect a variance also in the sense I'm expecting $1,000 plus or minus $50 that means either you can get nine $50 or $1,050, right? These are the things we are going to do now. We don't stop there. We also do posted analysis. So let's see how these things turns out. Let's start with choosing an expiration so let's take this example, the Monday, June 3, 2019, is like this the day we are in and we are trying to kind of think you decided you're going to sell spy to capture implied volatility. Difference between implied and realized. Now the question comes, what is the expiration I need to pick? Should I pick one month, three month or six month? You have three options here, and you maybe you just looked at at the money, and then they have same implied volatility. Now there is a question, right? The this is a complex scenario, because see if you want to sell, you want to have a contract that has highest implied volatility, because higher the implied volatility, higher the premium you can collect when you sell. But what if they have similar at the money volatilities? Then what you do? Then you need to strategize. You can actually take an average you can just go ahead with a three month contract that is one thing. Or you can also think like this, in general, what are the contracts that would have higher volatility? Is it short dated or long dated? It is short dated, right? But think of it like a market analyst. Understand, in this scenario, what is a volatility currently, markets are in extremely volatile phase, right? If I were given a chance, I would have taken one month volatility, same scenario on third, June, 2019, also. So there was some volatility, and since these three have similar volatility, I might as well go ahead with one month options, so that I know shorter dated options has a higher volatility. And also, I might as well go ahead and go take a one month option without experts on 20th so that I can validate my idea. So for this, the at the money employed volatility is 18.8 we're going to use this number 18.8 as we move forward. So this is, this is where I'm coming up with the structure, right? Let's spend some time in this. So first we decided we are going to go for strangles. Why would anybody go for strangles? Is a very first question you need to ask, because it's easy to go with straddles, right? I can just sell in at the money, call in at the money, put and call it a day. But if I am going for straddles, the cost is higher. Always that the many options are. I mean, the whole point here is

Speaker 1  3:08:27  
how structuredly You want your risk and reward to be. If you go for straddles, it's easy. Actually. You can go for admin, but if you go for strangles, then you have a bigger room, right? Then you might think, let me actually show you, because last time. Also we discussed the same thing. When you're going for straddles,

Unknown Speaker  3:08:45  
add the money call and strangles out of the money call.

Speaker 1  3:08:54  
And so it depends on what you're trying to capture. You can go for straddles or triangles, anything is fine. But sometimes, if you are going for long, then you need to think about your costs. Also, if you're going for shorts, it's fine, since anyway, going to collect the premium. But in this scenario, if, since I'm going for shorts, we decided these two options, 262 and 286 so the current at the money price is 275 we went out of the money, and then we bought out of the money. Call and out of the money. Put, these are the delta of these two particular contracts, and this is 3.09 so these were sold for this price. So now two more important details we need to note down, because in future, we are going to calculate all the metrics using volatility. So you we noted down, what are the delta of these two contracts? What are the spot prices, I mean strike prices, and also, what is the implied volatility of put and the call? So with this, we came up with a risk profile. L. So it's nothing, but we know the equation. We know the P and L equation. Let me show you, P and L is equal to omega into implied wall minus realized wall. So with this equation, initially we noted down the implied volatility is 18.8 for this particular scenario. But when we that is for at the money. But since we went out of the money, the implied volatility of puts and calls are this, and we know the historical volatility of the underlying with this, you need to come up with a risk profile. What happens if my underlying check doesn't change? So with Vega of this value, I'm not getting any money. But if my Vega, at my spy, the underlying increased by 5% it went up by 5% this is my Vega, and then this is my P and L. So similarly, you need to come up either cases, if, if, what happens if the underlying goes up and what happens if the underlying comes down. This exercise is important for you to estimate what could be your risk, right? And here, nothing actually looks green to me. Nothing actually looks good to me. In either of the scenarios, I am actually seeing some kind of a losses here and extreme losses when the market falls by 30% but you can always ask, what are the chances that market would fall by 30% in a month? But for your analysis, you need to get your numbers and then eyeball it. Okay, if I go with this triangles, these are all the risks I have. Is there any way I can contain this? One way to contain this is see if there is a crash, right? I know the 30%

Speaker 1  3:11:42  
change in spy is unlikely, but if it happens, I'm eyeing at a half a million dollar loss. So for that to cap my risk, I bought 100 of 232, puts at two delta. What it means is we bought some put options so that whenever there is an extreme crash or extreme drawdown in the underlying at least some of the losses are mitigated with this, there is an improvement in the risk profile, right? You can see in either of the cases, the risk is a bit limited, and you see an improvement in P and L. So this is not a I'm not asking you to do the same thing. I'm not asking you to go ahead and buy puts on the other side. It's just in case study. To give you an idea, how would you approach it, you can come up with a straddle also you instead of strangle. You can also go ahead with straddle also. Then also you need to do the similar analysis. What is happening to my vehicle, what is happening to my P and L, and how would my average trade look like? Then you need to see what is other position I can open so that my risk profile improves. This is to tell you you are not going to deal only with straddles or strangles. This is where I'm telling in the beginning of the class you come up with positions, which is a combination of straddles and some kind of a calls and puts also. Now there is a bit of an improvement in the risk profile. Then the next step is to kind of understand. There are some softwares that does it, but also you can also plot it using Python. But the whole idea is, I just extended to 50% to 55% and in this scenario, we know on an average, within a month, spy on an average might extreme. It might move by 6% or 7% so I'm not always eyeballing like 500k profit or my loss of half a million dollars or whatever. Now these yellow lines are telling me that, okay, this is the range my strategy might play with. This is the range in which spy mode historically. So I might expect this kind of a movement depending on where the market lands. Now. The next question is, how do I hedge it? Because it's we are talking about what would happen if the market actually moves right now. The next question is, how do you hedge this particular thing so that it would be a pure volatility play? Because, or else it actually makes no sense to me. It's always making loss only. But since we are structuring your volatility trade, it's imminent that you need to control the impact of the change in underlying on the premium, which is called delta, HG, so we go back to the previous method we have discussed, which is wilbourn Valley approximation. And previously, also, we have seen a risk aversion kappa of 0.24, that you can use, because that depends on how we took trade as an example. For example, if you are a trader and you know your delta range, which you are comfortable, then you can substitute that in this and solve for gain. You get some value. If not 0.24 you might get some other value. So first, navigate with your experience and calibrate your kappa value, and also the cost, also the proportional transaction cost, also depending on the market you're trading. And then the broker you subscribe to, you should also come up with lambda value like. If the underlying is that, let's say $25,000 or I'm talking about index of India. Let's say if you're talking about a stock which is $100 and how much, how many dollars are you paying for transaction cost that gives you lambda, once you get your lambda and Kappa, other things are pretty straightforward. And anyhow, most of your change in delta or change in the band's width, depends on gamma for you, because that is the most important variable in this approximation. With this in mind. Now the next question is, okay, I want to use that equation, but then what should be my hedging methodology, am I hedging based on implied volatility, or am I hedging based on realized volatility? So in this example, in this case study, we are only concerned where my final profit would land. So I want more accurate final number than day to day number. That's why we're not primarily concerned about MTM. So we are using forecasted volatility. What does it mean? So I want to know all the numbers based on realized volatility. But how would I know realized volatility until the market closed, right until the expiry happened? That's where I forecast. So you that is, this is the reason why we discussed about forecasting volatility, because it is going to give you a number where your volatility might land. There are many ways to do you can. You can easily just pick up the VIX number also, because VIX, anyway, will tell you within a month where would the spy volatility would land. So that is one way. Or you can also go ahead and use GARCH model. Also in this we are just taking an average. So basically, VIX

Speaker 1  3:16:45  
is giving me 14.1 and God's model is giving me 13.7 we took an average. Any approach is better, as long as you stick to it for the whole analysis. Here, we just use hedging. Volatility is an average of both the forecast, so which is 13.9 now how does it relate to our final profit and loss? As I said, all these things doesn't just let you just go ahead and live trade, right? You also need to know, on an average, what would be your three radical profit and loss. This is where we go for expectations part of your analysis where use the equation that we discussed, where you individually calculate your p and l for every position you have, we have three positions right. One position is a combination of short put and a short call, which is a strangle. So you know all these numbers for triangle. So we already noted down. Yes, we already noted down. What is the implied volatility of put, and what is the implied volatility of call, and what is the realized volatility that also we have calibrated using GARCH model and also VIX, which is 13.9 so we just need these numbers we have, we know we got, and we we want to know what is the implied volatility, and realize we have all these three metrics. So using this, you calculate the profit and loss, which is expected, right? It may not be exactly same, but let's see what happens. So this is giving me 16,900 of course, assuming your volatility is correct. But we don't know until the market closed, but as of now, it is 16 or 900 but if you run a simulation, if you run a simulation with different metrics, right in the sense, by changing the volatility a bit, and also by changing the context it is run, the standard deviation is 8200 what does It mean? In fact, this is one important metric, expected profit shouldn't be a single number. So it should be average profit with standard deviation. So average profit is for as it is 16,900 standard deviation is 8200 Yes, so what does it mean? It means, if I take one standard deviation, the range of profit is 16,900 minus 8200 comma, 16,900 plus 8200 so this is the range of profit or loss and expecting. So that's all you need to think about. Instead of coming up with a single number, you need to come up with the range. I'm just considering one standard deviation, but you can go with any number of standard deviations. But this will give me a basic idea of what I can expect, right? So this is $8,700 comma. 25,100 so this is the range of P and L I'm expecting, and on an average, we're expecting this. So. See how it turns out. The same scenario, these are the results. But when this actually trade had happened, the actual profit was 24218, and it is within the range we expected, but surprisingly, it is closer to the higher end. But we need to see why it is we did better than our forecast, because realized volatility of 10.6 so let's see what had happened. We what was our expectation? This is actually post trade analysis. We expected wall to crash to 13.9% but it crashed to 10.1% sorry, yeah, 10.6% we expected. We calculated everything using 13.9 that's why we got this range. But volatility fell much further. For this very reason, our profits are on higher end. This is how you do your analysis, and not you don't just stop it. Since we got profit, we can't be so happy. We need to see why didn't? Why did it reach the higher end? Because it's because we forecasted something, but it fell much lower. But had we known 10.6% earlier, our average profit would have been 287, 100. But we don't know that, right? We never know what would be the future value. We can only guesstimate using the methods we have. Then there are different things we need to analyze. For example, there is a specific rally that spy did. We don't know the rally right earlier, we thought, okay, this is the price. It is at 275

Speaker 1  3:21:43  
275 is at the money. And what are all the scenarios that we can but previously, if you remember, we discussed drift versus no drift scenario, and if there was a positive trend, then we need to kind of buy our volatility to go website, which we didn't do. That's why we got better results, because SP were rallied from 275, to 293, after we took a position. Had we known that there would be a positive rally, we would have waited a bit longer and then shorted it. But of course, we don't know. We don't know any of these in advance. We don't know that volatility is going to crash more, and we didn't know that the price is going to trend up. If we had known, we could have had better forecasts, but with the same results, of course. So generally, you do analysis like this, just to repeat first, get your P and L expectations. Second, do post trade analysis. Then, most importantly, list on reasons of your results and find what could have, what you could have done better. So this is where your improvement lies in. Improvement doesn't lie in getting profitable trades, because more often than not, it could be chance, at least in this case study, it is a by chance the market crashed higher, sorry, crashed lower or crashed harder. That's where we got better results. It doesn't mean that your analysis is actually good. No, there is always a way to improve your analysis. So this is where we might think, okay, had I known, or had I considered the drift? I could have waited, I could have got better. Is right? I would have got better. Average, expected, P and L, which is 20th, one, 700 which is closer to what had happened. Is closer to what had happened now, without considering the drift, without considering my forecast, I got 16,900 as expectation, but the outcome was 28,000 which is far from what we expected. But had we used some other metric for volatility forecast, or had we considered the drift that is already there in the market, our expectation would have been closer. Since it is profit, it doesn't make much of a sense to you. But what if it is a loss? What if? If we could have better forecast, so that it forecasted negative returns and market actually fell right? All these things would have made sense when you also consider the other side, the risk side. So to repeat after all this said and done, sometimes even if the back tests are profitable, you might also lose money. But the whole point here is not to get emotional or tied to a single trade. Look at your complete ledger on an average, on an average within a month, on an average within a within a quarter, etc, so that you can get a better outcomes of it, the outcomes being the data points. Then if you are not able to get a profitable strategy, then how do you feel about it? It's not about how you feel, because if you just fixated on whether you're feeling good or bad based on your. Trades, then it doesn't take anywhere. It's just an emotional roll question. Instead, you need to get out of it by reading blogs or reading papers or talking to different traders, formulating your own ideas by trading with smaller amount and then observing patterns in the market. You can explore because even now, I can strongly bet whoever is in this class, or whoever is going to learn options as we go, can find patterns which nobody would have found to explore so far. There are patterns many people would have find it, but nobody took a decision to explore it. Right. There are extraordinary trader stories you can find online, and in fact, even in your E patent itself, there are traders, options traders who went ahead and started their own hedge funds also, and you can talk to placement sell, you can talk to ePad team. They would give you examples of traders that had actually went through all these analysis and successfully started their funds also, and research firms also, because they were able to find new patterns which nobody cared to explore much. So that actually gives me confidence that I also seen many traders very closely which kind of banks on simple patterns, which many academicians thought like this is a very simple pattern nobody would care about it. Care to back to show but still simple, fundamental share is always works and just to kind of close this discussion, these are actually very important. First of all, find an inch. Don't try to judge whether it is extremely profitable

Speaker 1  3:26:35  
or not. Just find an inch. There is a strategy that works in most of the markets, at least at some point it works, which is shorting. The market is 930 people used to go take a short call position at 930 different ways to try to short a market at 930 and then close it at end of the end of the day. They found at least statistically good results with it, because they found a pattern for that market, right? Could be simple and stupid like that. Also sometimes I say stupid, because not every single time, with your current knowledge, you may not be able to justify the logic behind that, but at least statistically, if you are rigorous about the performance metrics and it makes sense, it doesn't have you to take a bet and then see where it goes, right. So treat it as a business. Treat it as a holistic thing, not a single trade or a single week or a monthly performance thing, even as a trader. Also, if you are a manual trader, it's a bit emotionally taxing. So in the next class, we are going to see how to do everything programmatically. I mean, next class, there is only 5% of the theory, and mostly it would be driven by Python only. I mean, I'm going to have multiple notebooks, and I'm going to show you how to strategize an options backtesting, because it's very difficult. If you want to maybe within this week, you guys can try it out in using any LLM, or try to find out online. Also, I know there is a course within quantity ecosystem on backtesting, but I myself couldn't find any good, reliable, back tested Python code that you can find easily online, so that we're going to discuss, but treat it as a business model. Look at it holistically, and always focus on how you manage your risk, because that is a good quality that brings profit into your table, because most of the times, the hard earned profits are lost by very few uncontrolled risks. So try to control your risk more, and then it's okay to okay to forego a risky trade, than to get held in a risky trade and try to optimize it, take some positions and try to collect some kind of a profit. It almost never works. So that's pretty much it. And yeah, wish to wish you good luck. But yeah, this is not an end of our discussions. So next class, we are going to just sit and kind of understand how to counter these kind of difficulties using Python only. We create back tested from scratch. We don't use any libraries, because there are many libraries. Backtest yt is one library. There are a number of libraries in Python that gives you back test, but I don't see any options. So you and me going to create options back tester from scratch for naked options, like a long put, long call, and also complex options also, and see how we can improve that. And let me see if you have any questions. Let me just yeah. Let's see if you have any interesting questions that are not answered yet.

Speaker 1  3:29:34  
Yes, I see four questions. So first question By Shreyas edge only. Last three to six months. So by the way, others, I recommend you to type in any question or any interesting thing you have. I know we are just passed over to amount of lecture time, but if you want, you can stay back and ask any interesting question. I can stay back for 10 more minutes. And so it

Unknown Speaker  3:29:59  
just only last three. To six months, especially Madan, how do you hedge or rate an edge?

Speaker 1  3:30:06  
Okay. Shreyas, you're actually right. You're right. In more context, see if I talk about age, you're saying it lasts for three to six months, but depends on strategy, right? For example, there are fundamental edges that are there in the market which are quite open. As I was saying, 50 crossover, 200 crossover. It's magical. It works. But I'm not saying use that simple strategy, but it is just a representation of market. If you see extremely bullish market. Definitely. 50 day crossover happens in the market, right? But if you say there is an age that only lasts for three to six months, that I don't completely agree with it. But if there are Blackboard system, let's say there are a based systems, I agree with it completely, because I've seen many AI models that works very good in backtest. And then when we deploy they work only for six months, and after that they stopped working. Sometimes they might converge. Converging is a very interesting concept, if you want you can explore. Sometimes the strategy might deviate from what you expect for any year also. But then later, slowly, they would converge. They would converge to an average. So it only tells us that we are not giving enough time for the edge to uncover maybe that is one scenario. But if you ask me, How do you rate an edge? It's also it's always about how frequent that scenario is, right? As I was saying, if I say there is an edge for a strategy that takes 50 versus 100 crossover, if i had to rate it like, how many times it is happening? If it is happening only once in a year, then it doesn't make sense for me to actually trade with it. I might invest using it. That's how I would rate and interesting question, and another interesting question by Shaya smithan is, how did you simulate expected P and L? That is actually a very detailed answer that it would require, but I will just give it a shot. The Pendle scenario. The Pendle simulations you see here is a Monte Carlo simulations based on options, path, right. You can, you can actually take it up as a project. And you can also, there are people who did the same project in the past, in iPad, also where the title would be using Monte Carlo simulations to simulate P and L so why are we getting different P and L curves? The reason is, you try to use a Black Scholes model or any kind of a pricing model and see predict what the premium would be, okay. But if you change the scenario, if you change the interest rate, if you change the volatility value, and if you change additional metrics, then you get different option parts, you get different pay handles. So the simulations you see are Monte Carlo simulations that are done with the same idea, with different turning the knobs, basically with different input values. What is the path the premium could take with that part? If I take a strategy, then how would the outcome be? That essentially what that is. So Krishna Bhavan asks in the example, we shorted a Strang triangle and then bought a put graph shows in loss in all scenarios, what other traits did you take from the hedging methodology to make a profit? Not clear on how we make a profit so that we did, because we took a hedging methodology. That was what we expected in the past. But I know after the after, we operated to 50 versus 55 it's not clear between minus 5% and plus 5.5% because it's just a issue with how we scaled. Because we are talking from $2 million to like 500,000,500k but if you actually really do it, you see, I believe it's minus 12,500 to 25,500 is what you see. But it's just a scaling issue. But you can actually run the number, you would get the same thing. And as I said, you can also take it as an iPad project. You can code it out. We can help you, or if you want to do it in excellent and do it manually. Also we can help you. Maybe your project title could be how to pre analysis, volatility trade and compare with posh analysis results. That also could be an interesting thing. But to straightly answer what you asked, the hedging methodology actually made difference, and also the positions we took when the market moved between minus 5% and 5% so there are two more interesting questions by shares. One is, if IV is negative, if IV negative, IV minus RV is positive, which credit strategies should deploy in rainbow or trending market? If it is the other case, which debit strategies should deploy. So see simple thought process if you see a positive difference between IV. Now the question is, what do you do? Of course, you sell the market, right? Sell the market. But when you're talking about range, movement and trending market, you are mixing two things,

Speaker 1  3:34:57  
because initially we started thinking about volatility. That's why. Are talking about variance premium being positive or negative, but when you're talking about range bound or trending market, now you're talking about what is the price right? Because ideally, when there is a range bound market, sometimes you will see lower volatility. Sometimes you see higher volatility. Same thing with trending also there are trends up trends with lower volatility, which are stronger trends and higher volatility, which are unusual trends also. So instead of looking at it in terms of price based range or trending, you might want to look at it as what happens if there is a positive variance, when there is a higher volatility and lower volatility. But in either case, if you see a positive difference, then you short the market, and if you see negative difference, you can go long for volatility. There is no demarcation of range bound trending markets that we can explore. And then another follow up question is quantitative is how to do SWOT analysis of an edge? See SWOT analysis of an edge. It's not as simple as spot analysis, because spot analysis has no limitations, right? Because it's not completely see. It's all objective when you do spot analysis, but when you're talking about an edge, only two things matters. Are you making profit, is the first thing, and are you making enough profit to cover the drawdowns? What where I'm going is, it's not always about are we getting more profit than a mutual fund or more profit than a savings account to achieve that profit? What is the risk? Are we trying to hold right? So if my strategy is giving you 90% loss, then it doesn't make sense for me, because that 90% loss has to recover, and then it should give me profits. So if you're asking about SWOT analysis of an edge, I would go beyond SWOT analysis. That's what, essentially, we are talking about when we talk about performance metrics. But it's not about edge, because a single edge only tells you, are we getting more than market or not. But I'm talking about more detailed thing of performance metrics, where you talk about what is the average drawdown. If I take this trade 100 times, how is my top 10 look trade looks like compared to what my bottom 10 trades look like, then that's what analysis, terminology and extension would be. When did these 10 Lost trades happen? Are they happening back to back, or did they happen only in a specific market condition? These are all the ways I would analyze. Vishnu vishwaroupan asked, how do we estimate a forecast volatility was on a particular date. So it's if you want to forecast for a particular date, it's about forecasting for a particular period. For example, if my date is 15 days ago, like 15 days in the future, right? Then I can actually use, see GARCH model. You can actually use in the code I gave you. We use it for a month. You can actually calibrate it for a 15 day also, or 10 day, or three day one day. Also use the same equation, but it's just that in the inputs, whatever volatility we give that actually talks about daily volatility. If you're trying to predict daily volatility, if you're trying to predict for a particular date, just see how many days ahead it is, and then just calibrate your equations for the same so that's what we did for GARCH model and for Wix, it is a pretty standard. It considers what is a volatility 30 days forward, but you can actually calculate daily, what is a daily volatility, as per that you know, 30 days volatility from the week from that you can calculate daily volatility and see whatever for whatever date you want to calculate. And Anusha mailpati asks, there are many existing algos we need to pay for those the market with good statistics. Are they reliable? Does all algo make okay? This is almost a question for what I do every day at my work, because we have multiple algos that we may not say we sell, but we ran them out. Yes, if you ask me, are the statistics reliable? I should speak for myself, the orgos we deploy or we put it on different, different different marketplaces, like small case or whatever.

Speaker 1  3:39:24  
They are actually tested for at least 10 years and they I'll tell you, from SEBI point of view, why to point out a single organization, right? Let's talk from SEBI point of view, if every algo vendor, if I say algo vendor, I'm talking about RAS right? Advisors, people, whoever tell you, whoever you're selling you all goes, they sell you the recommendations from all goes, which are done by advisors which are RAS. So, as per SEBI, there is a standard tier sheet that you need to produce every single month that is called as a fact sheet. So. So anybody who is selling you an algo is legally they have to give you the patched performance of that particular algo, and they need to update the performance every single month. If you go to any platforms that actually shows you or sells you this algo, they will also show you the live performance of the Targo. You just need to compare what they're claiming. So I know I don't want to name any platforms right now with a simple Google search, you can find it depending on the reason you are but you can easily see their live performance that is actually mandated by regulators across the world. So if you ask me, does that algo makes money as shown in the chat. Be careful, any stat you see might not include transaction cost. That is the only thing that they can't include. So if you see experts and cajr, then it's on you to actually add the course or whoever is selling you always call them up and say, I know I've seen the numbers, they look good, but you ask them the same question, if I improve transaction cost, what would be the number? And ask them to give the numbers. If the numbers looks good, yeah, you can. You can actually maybe trust them. I think only to that action I can answer you that hope all are answered. Oh, wait, wait, there is one more question by Vishnu vishwaroop, how can I compute forward volatility measure different expiries, different expiries. It's simple use the same equations, but different expiries will have different implied volatilities, different historical volatility. So it doesn't matter. So these volatility calculations are contract specific. Doesn't matter how when it is expiring, because, of course, it is innately considered within the volatility, the inputs you have taken, hope that is answered one more question by Anusha, how to monetize a trading strategy without any financial certification? Is it possible? Yes, it is. And simple answer, not to make fun, but, yeah, you can even deploy your own capital. But to be more serious, if I have to talk in the reason I mean, which is regulated by Security Exchange Board of India, you can't do that if you want to monetize a trading strategy. A simple way to get a ra certification. Ra is a advisory certification using which you try to monetize your recommendations. If you want to say, I'm monetizing my trading strategy, every trading strategy will tell you when to buy, when to sell. Those are called recommendations. If you have RA certification, then you can have if you are from us, there are other certifications that you can do that will give you a license to actually put it out. And second thing, there are platforms that are out there where you can upload your trading strategy fact sheets and put in a price tag of a subscription. But I'm sure right now, SEBI is actually actively asking people to get the certifications and then do it. And these are very easy certifications with a with a week's preparation, you can get the license that is there for three years. And once you get the license, you can definitely go ahead and monetize your strategy. And there are other ways also, which are backdoor ways, which you shouldn't discuss in this call, I guess. But yeah, these are all interesting questions. But anybody who actually posted a question or who didn't also, please feel free to take my email and through ePad support, you can definitely reach out to me, not only anything related to what we discussed in OTS lectures, any interesting questions, like Anusha is asking how to monetize a trading strategy, or somebody else was asking, What happens if I had to forecast volatility for different time period, for a specific day, any kind of a question related to options. I'm always interested to receive questions, and I'll definitely help you out. Take my own time and help you out. All the best. And we have one more interesting lecture that is purely based. And I know a couple of students in the past actually told in this chart that they're not well versed with Python, so let's spend more detailed time on strategies and Python in the next class. So thanks for your time, and thanks guys and looking forward some interesting questions, so feel free to just email me through support. Thank you. See you guys. Bye, bye.

