Speaker 1  0:02  
Hi everyone. Welcome to this session on PBQ 02 so this is your second lecture in Python basics. My name is Ashutosh the way, and I'll be your instructor for today. First of all, can you please ping me and let me know if I'm audible in you can ping in the chat box.

Speaker 1  0:31  
Okay, thank you. Thank you for the conversation, for the confirmation. Great. I'll just zoom in little bit so you guys can see this little better, I hope. Okay, all right, so, so what's on today's menu? First of all, we'll do a quick recap of all the things you have seen up till now, after your primers and the first lecture and today's lecture, then progresses on to discuss two very important libraries in Python, which are the numpy and the pandas library. Okay. Why are we studying this today? The reason is that these are your workhorses, which will allow you to do back testing and other quant research workflows. Okay, so these are the building blocks that we are going to study today, right? And towards the end of the lecture, we are also going to see some commonly done calculations in quant research and trading. Okay? And this will lay a good foundation for your upcoming lectures where you are going to back test a few strategies. Okay, all right. First thing first, this is a quick recap of all the basic data types Python, and I hope all of you are aware of these like now. So you have seen, there is the string data type which contains a name or some text. There's the integer right, which is an integral number, float, which contains decimal numbers, Booleans, which contains true or false, kind of values. Okay, now these are for holding singular data points. But what if you have multiple data points, which is usually the case in life, right? There's like, you don't get, like, one single price update for a stock. You get a series of updates. So how do you hold that data? You have advanced data types or data structures, like the list, okay, the tuple, right, dictionary and set. Now, one thing to remember is that in Python, syntax is very important, because whatever code you are writing, how does the interpreter, you know, interpret it basically just by looking at the syntax. Okay, so for example, if I have a variable A, and I set it to a value of two, right, and when I check the type of a, it says, integer, okay. And similarly, if I do 2.0 Okay, and if I check the type, it says float, right. If I just put these quotation marks, it says string, okay. And if I do some sort of logical comparison, or, you know, logical block, it says Boolean, right? So one thing we should be very careful of is the syntax. So two is different from 2.0 okay, in terms of how the data is understood and stored, okay? And we have these different types of data types and data structures to house the data right, and each one of them have different qualities, features, functions, which we'll see Right. Um, moving on to more advanced data structures, we can look at a list, right? So what is the syntax here? It's the square brackets, like square braces, right? So any number of values that you can put here, and if you check the type, it's a list. Okay? Now, list is a heterogeneous. Data structure, it can hold data points of different data types. So for example, suppose I want to store the name of the stock, the last credit price and the last traded volume. Okay? I can put all three of them in a list, right? However, the the ticker symbol, or the name of the stock is string, the price is float. You can see there's a decimal here, and the volume is the number of shares, so that is basically an integer, right? So, yes, I can store this in a list. I can also store this in a tuple. Okay, now, there's a little bit of a difference between a list and a tuple, and I, I assume you know the difference, right? Tuples are immutable, so once created, you can't change them, right? So, and both of these are used for different purposes, right? But what is a better way of storing this data? Like, if I am a new person looking at this code, I do not have any context like, okay, what are all these things? So one good way of storing this kind of data is in a dictionary that is in key value pairs. So I can have a dictionary where my key is the symbol, my last price is, whatever the last price and my traded volume can be this, right? So now I can store this data as a dict, and if I now want to access any part of the information, I can use the key to access it, right. So for example, if someone asks me, What is the last traded price? I can just write the name of the dict and say last price, and I will be able to access the value which is whatever number. Okay, so now you see dictionaries provide you more context, right? They are more richer data type compared to, say, a list, right? Because it's a key value map, okay? And finally, we have the set. Now, set is a data type which can only store unique values, and the order does not matter. Now you see, if you look at the syntax, okay, you see curly braces here, as well as in a set as well, right? But in a dictionary, it's like a key value pair. You see this colon, which is connecting this key to this value, right? Whereas this is just like a collection of objects, right? So what do I mean by that you can only have unique elements in a set? Suppose I try to create a set which contains three elements, a and U and I. Check this, you see it has just one A and 1u because you can not have duplicated elements here, okay, unlike a list. So second difference between a list and a set is that the order does not matter, right? So suppose this is a list, okay? Because you can see square brackets, a comma, U, and I'm here checking equality with a double equal to right. So this should actually resolve to a Boolean value of true or false. So is a comma u equal to u comma A, that is the question and the answer is false, because in list, the order matters, so a comma u is not same as u comma A, whereas, if I'm looking at a set A comma u, and I'm checking equality with U, comma A, this will be resolved to true. Why? Because, in set data structure, the order does not matter, okay, so all these data structures are different way of housing the data, and we choose the data structure based on our need, basically right what kind of data we want to store, all right. And each of these data structure or data type come with their own functionalities and proper. Properties, the functionalities or the function things that you can do are also referred to as methods, and the properties are also referred to as attributes, okay, now let us see a concrete example. So suppose, if I create a string name, okay? And you and I check the type it is string correct. But now let me do this name, dot and press the Tab key. Okay.

Speaker 1  10:35  
So what am I doing? Dot and Tab key on your keyboard so you see this drop down menu pops up. Now this contains a lot of stuff that you can do with strings. Okay, these things like the some of these are functions, some of these are properties, but they are unique to strings. For example, if I choose the first one capitalize, okay. What has this function done to the string? It capitalize the first letter, okay, similarly, if I do name dot upper, it capitalizes the whole string, okay, can you use upper with an integer? It doesn't make sense. Can you use upper or capitalize with a float? No, okay, so these are methods which are unique to strings, all right. Similarly, let's take example of a list. So players is a list, right? Again, players dot press the Tab key. You see like a drop down menu pops up. This contains several things that you can only do with a string. So for example, take the Append one. Okay, now I don't know what this done. What this does, basically append, okay. I want to understand and how can I access some help here. One thing I can do is I can just put a question mark and run the cell, and it gives me something called as a doc string. Now the drop doc string tells us what the function is supposed to do, and here we see it appends object to the end of the list. Okay. So now if I do players dot append, and I put the name of another football player, and if I check my updated list. You see this football player has been appended to the end of the list. Okay. Now, instead of a list, if I just put the same data inside a tuple, and let's do the same thing, let's check what all functions are available. For a tuple.

Speaker 1  13:16  
Okay, you see, can you see append here? No Why? Because append method is not available for a tuple, okay, and that's the whole point. So basically, tuples are different from lists, and if I try to append something to a tuple, I get an error, okay? And error says tuple object has no attribute append, as we just saw. Okay? Now, yes, she's saying I'm not getting drop down option after you should get so if you press the dot and you press the Tab key, okay, tab on your keyboard, then most probably you should be able to see this. Okay. If not, then there may be some setting issue. So we can help you with that later, but most likely you should be able to see this, okay? Zubin says tuples are immutable. That's correct, right? That's what we saw. Pragnesh says which library do we have to import for name players? No library. This is part of Python Standard Library. Okay, so you currently for doing any kind of list or tuple, these are all inbuilt, so you don't have to call any third party library as of now. Okay, all right. Cool. Next thing are. Up I want you to remind off is the conditional statements and control structures. Now, these are all the logic. This is how we make the logic flow. Basically, if I am trying to design, you know, piece of code, how do I make the logic flow using branching and loops. Now the first one that we will see is a for loop. Now, what is a for loop? Let's look at it using an example. Suppose I have a list called GDP. And I have a very simple trading strategy, or investment strategy, I should say, of generating a signal. Whenever the GDP number, which is released every quarter, is more than 7% I am going to buy the market, okay, if it is 7% then I'm going to hold, if it is less than seven, I'm going to sell the market. Okay? Now I'm just doing some kind of, you know, if I have some historical data, I'm just trying to generate signals of this. Okay, so what can I do? Okay, so I can use a for loop, which goes something like this, that for as soon as I wrote for you, see it turned green, because now that's a keyword, okay, then I can say for an element, in G, D, P, print, element. So currently, what this for loop does is that whenever I say element or I can even put some other other name, like x, y, z, I whatever it iterates over each of that element, right? So the first element is 7.2 the next one is seven, then eight, and so on. And then I have this indent. And within this block, I need to mention what I want to do with each of these elements, okay, as we iterate over them one by one. So in this simple flow, firstly, I'm just printing them. Okay, why? Because I had to run this Okay, so it went element by element and just printed it. Okay. Now I can do anything. So I can say, print element and maybe add one to it. Okay. Now I can do any sort of transformation with each of the elements, okay. But here, what is my goal? My goal is I want to generate signals. So for that, I need to have a way of conditioning, right? And that is the if Elif else branching block, okay, now I want to check if element is greater than seven. Then what do I do? I print, print, buy, okay, then I have Elif. Elif is Else, if so. If this condition is not satisfied, like the element is not greater than seven, we move to the next branch, right, which is Elif, which is short for Else, if so. Next I'm checking, okay, it's not greater than seven. Let's see if, if it is less than seven, less than seven, then I can say, print, print cell. Okay. And then for all other cases which are not covered in if and Elif blocks, okay, what should I be doing? So, what? What case is remaining, greater than seven is covered, less than seven is covered, so the only possibility for else is exactly equal to seven, okay. In that case, my investment strategy is to hold, okay. And here we should have a quote, okay, so I so this four. Loop will make us go element by element, and then for each element, we will check all these conditions and have a print accordingly, right? And to make this more explicit, we can, okay, let's first do this. We can also print the value of the element so that it's simple. Okay, let's put like a space so it looks okay.

Speaker 1  20:38  
Okay. And now I'm going to run this and I see when the GDP came out to be 7.2 my signal was to buy when it was seven, hold eight, then buy again, and then 6.6 it was to sell. All right, so this is how I used my for loop and my if Elif else branching method, okay. And this one level of indentation, or the tab, like one tab, tells me that all of this, if LFL comes under this for loop, okay. So as I go on, iterating one by one over the element. For each element, I'm going to run this logic. Okay? Now, in this case, I am only printing it, but I actually want to save these values in some data structure. So for that, I have an empty list called signal, right? So instead of printing, I can put this value inside this empty signal so that at the end I have a list which told me what decisions I took. Okay, so, and we all know that the lists have a special method called append. So we are going to use that. So signal, dot append, let's say buy in this case.

Unknown Speaker  22:18  
And here it's going to be sell. Here, it's going to be

Speaker 1  22:26  
hold, okay? And this time, I'm just going to comment out the print statements, because, yeah, we already saw how that works. Okay? So before running this loop, how does my signal look? It's empty, correct. Now, let us run this loop, and now again, check signal. You see now I have buy, hold, buy, sell. Okay, so using the for loop and the if Elif else conditions, we have generated our signals. So this is very important to understand. If you have any question, I'm happy to answer now, is there any open question on this, okay, no questions, brilliant. Okay. Shriya says, Why buy came twice? Because two times it was greater than seven, right, 7.2 and eight. So we got two buy signals, okay, Zubin says when to use colon, okay, colon, yes. So whenever you have if, then you write whatever condition we need to evaluate. And then after that we have a colon. So this is part of the syntax, right? And then this block comes under this condition. So only if this condition is true will this block get executed, okay. Else, if this condition is true, then this block will get executed, okay. And colon is part of the syntax that we have to put after the condition, okay? And here, there is no specific condition, so all other cases fall here, so we just put the colon, okay? So, yeah, it's part of the syntax. As we discussed, syntax is very important. So that is part of the and you will see a colon here also, right? Because all of these come under this or for loop. Okay, Zubin says no explicit exit return required, no because this is not a function. This is just a loop. Okay, so. Indentation means this spacing that you are seeing, right? So in Python, indentation tells you something important, like because all of these are like one indent away from this for loop, correct, all of this block comes under this for loop. Okay? If I put like this, this will lead to an error, because then there is nothing under this for loop, right? So you'll see indentation error, okay, because it's not able to find anything under the for loop. So this has to go one indentation away, and then this whole thing is another indentation away, because this comes under this if statement, okay, so that is how it works, all right. So that was the for loop and if Elif else, branching, yeah. So we have already covered all this. This just explains the same thing. Now, in Python, there are multiple ways of doing the same thing, but to begin with, we only need to understand the basic way. So this is the main way you should understand how things are done. We will discuss one optional way also, which is another way of writing an if statement. Okay, so for example, here we have a last price, okay, which is eight and an average price is 10, okay. Now, instead of writing an IF lfls block like this, I can also write it in one line using a different syntax, okay, so here, this is called one line if statement, and the syntax is as follows. So you write, okay, what output Do you want? If, then you give a condition, okay, then else, and then again you give a condition. Sorry, else the output you want other condition else hold. So in this case, we are evaluating three things. Okay, if the last price is greater than average price, our output is long. If last price is less than average, price output is short. In all other cases, it is hold, okay? So this is not necessarily faster. This is another way of doing things, but with lesser lines of code, okay, so in this case, our output is short. Why? Because last price was less than the average price, as you can see here, okay. If I change last price to 12, our output will become long, okay, and so on. So this is one way. Now another thing, okay, so there's a question by author. There is no condition associated with else of long. So for long, this is the condition. So in this case, condition comes after output comes first. It's just the syntax, okay, but yeah, so this is optional. Don't worry if you're not, you don't have to remember all this, because generally you will just use this classic way. Okay, this is only if you are using more advanced level of Python and or you are looking at some strategy online or in some blog. Okay, so then you should know that this thing exists, but you don't have to master at master this at this stage. Okay, similarly, does this work? Okay? Raka says, Does this work in PI charm, yes, it should. Zubin says the syntax is like in Sanskrit, okay. Shreya says if last price equal to average price, then hold will be printed, yes, that's correct. But it says why we mentioned element? Because element represented any one element of the list, okay, so it's just a placeholder you can also put instead of element. You can call it elephant or I or x or whatever, right? Once we so if I did this, okay, if you replace this with I, you will get exactly. Same output right, like here, okay, one special thing that we did here was we use the range function. Okay. Why did we use the range function over here? Because, okay, so, first of all, you see there are like two functions which are chained over here, range and length. So what is the length of the GDP list? It is four. Why? Because there are four elements correct. So

Speaker 1  30:43  
there are four elements, so the length is four. Now when I say range, okay, and I don't know what this range is. So what can I do? I can put a question mark right, or actually, I should just remove this and then put a question mark, then I get this doc string again, which tells me what the range function does. So it returns an object that produces a sequence of integers from start to stop, okay, and it jumps by whatever step we give. But if we just say range four, then it defaults to zero automatically, right? So range four will produce number 012, and three. Okay, because the top is excluded, the start is included, so zero will be included and four will be excluded. And this is just a lazy way of producing numbers, right? So when I say for i in range length of GDP, length of GDP is just four. So now, because we are putting the range through a for loop, it will produce the numbers 012, and three, and you can check it, okay. So let me. Let me show you this.

Speaker 1  32:28  
Print. I Okay, what numbers is the range producing? It's producing 012, and three. Now I can go and fetch, I can fetch the zero at element, first element, second element and third element. So suppose I want to know what is the last element. So last element, so here the counting starts from zero, right? So 0123, so I can say, print I and then I can also print the actual value at that place. Okay, and yeah, so at number zero is 7.2 actually can just print them in the same print statement that it's side by side. Okay, so at number zero is 7.21 is seven, and number two is eight, and number three is 6.6 Okay. Happy says, What does land stand for? It stands for length. Okay, so what is the length of this list? How many elements does it have? Four? Okay, all right, Brahma, length is Len is nothing but length, right? Okay, so I hope that is clear. Similarly, there is another concept which is called as list comprehension, which is a very nice way of producing new lists from existing lists. Okay, how can we do that, right? So first we need to remember the syntax. So again, guys, everything comes back to syntax. Okay, and what is the syntax? It is this, okay, expression for item in list. So item is same as element, right? So suppose I have a list. It's called list one. It has four elements, 234, and five. Now I want a. Another list which contains the squares of these elements. So I can achieve this using a list comprehension. So first thing I write is the expression which is i into? I Okay, so how do you get the square? You multiply the number with itself, for i in list one, okay, so I is now any element, so say, 2345, whatever. Okay. And like this, I get a new list, which I call the list of squares, and it contains all the squares, like four, 916, and 25 okay. Similarly, we can go to more complex use cases. So like, if you remember, how can I achieve what I achieved before in multiple lines? So how many lines of code did I write here? So many lines of code to get this signal Correct? Can I do it in one or two lines I can? And the way to do is, is using list comprehension. Okay, okay.

Speaker 1  36:21  
So first of all, if you look at this thing right, this part is a one line if statement correct, and this part completes the syntax for a list comprehension, because this is the expression for element. I'm calling any element as growth in GDP, which is this list. Okay, so just in two lines of code, I can get the same signal which I achieved in so many lines of code earlier. Okay, so money kandan says, is list comprehension a second option of loops? Format taught today? Yes, absolutely. So instead of writing all this loops, I just wrote like one line, and I you see this for for keyword comes in list comprehension also, but you can achieve the whole for loop in like one line. Okay, so that's a very good observation. Now, some people will say, Why? Why are you calling this growth? You can call this elephant, whatever. It does not matter once we write the for keyword, anything that comes after this is just like representing each value in the list. So even if I call it elephant, doesn't matter, right? You get the same output, okay. Shreya says, Could the data be fetched from website and print the result? Yes, why not? So we'll have, like, tons of data that will be fetched from online resources, but it's not for this lecture from next lecture onwards. Okay, all right, so guys, then, this is how it's done. Another one is like, if I give you any number, okay, let's say these numbers, and you want to evaluate x to the power three minus four. This is the expression for X. Is just one element in this list, in list one, so I can calculate any complex transformation of these elements now, right x to the power. Say, five, okay, minus 45 like, now it's up to me, like, what I want to calculate, right? I'll get all the numbers. So, given any list, I can now produce a new list, okay. How is this useful? Many times we want to compute, say, the log price. Okay. Now to compute the log price, you can get the log function from some third party library like NumPy, for example. Okay, and so I have to import it, import NumPy as NP, then I can access np dot log function. And suppose, if I have this list of prices now, I can just write np dot log p for p in prices now, p. Is representing any price here, right? So I get another list which contains all the log prices, okay, and so on. So this is list comprehension, okay, this here. There is another example which computes the cubes. Okay, so cube is like any number to power three. So two cube is eight, three cube is 27, and so on.

Speaker 1  40:32  
Can we use power expression? Can we use parentheses in the power expression? Yes, you can, right? It will be the same thing. Okay. Next important concept is the while loop. Okay. Now, for loop is like the most used kind of loop, but you will also see while loop sometimes, though less frequently. Now, this is a loop which is designed in a little different way, and this is how it works. So here we have a counter variable, okay, say, month, okay. And to begin with, I'm setting it to one. Okay, now I am starting a while loop, so I write while keyword, and I have a condition over here, okay, that the month should be less than or equal to 12. And if this condition is satisfied. So there's a colon, okay, then you have this indent and the block to be executed if this condition is satisfied. But if you notice, within this block there is some code that updates the counter variable. So every time this block gets executed, the month is increased by one, okay, so the next time month will be. So it starts with one is one less than or equal to 12, yes. So what do I do? Print one, slash 2025, then month is incremented by one, so the month becomes two. Now again, in the next iteration, month is two. So is two less than or equal to 12? Answer is yes. So again, print two, slash 2025, and so on till the month becomes 13, because you can't have 13 month. So then this loop then breaks. Okay, so let's run this you see, 1-234-567-8910, 1112, and then as soon as the month became 13, this loop broke. Okay. Now, what should we be careful with while using this while loop, which is that you should never have a condition like this, which is never falsified. Okay, so two less than three will always be true. And in this case, your computer can hang basically this kernel you will have to restart. Yeah, you will get stuck in an infinite loop. So I am not running this cell, because I don't want to break this session of the kernel. Okay, but you get the thing right. If I run this, the you will see star here forever, and then I have to restart, because this is always true. This is never falsified. Okay, Sri Nima says, can you explain while loop again? So, yeah, it's very simple, actually. So you write while and you have a condition. Until this condition is true, this block will keep getting executed. Okay, as soon as this condition is violated, the loop will break, okay, all right, how? So this is a pseudo code. It just gives you an idea how we use it in trading. So suppose you're trading the Indian markets. They trade between 9:15am and 3:30pm broadly, and your strategy is like, Okay, I want to exit all my trades, right? 1515, which is 3:15pm Okay, so you can have. So a while loop, okay, when the session is true, session is true between 915 and whatever 330 it will keep looking for signals, okay? And if your time exceeds 1515 it will set this session variable to false, and then you stop looking for new trades. Okay, that is a broad This is a pseudo code. This is not proper Python code, but this gives you an idea how to use while loop. Okay. Anyway, we have a lot of examples coming up in this and the next lectures, so it will make more sense, okay, but yeah, this part should be clear, like, how we ran a while loop here, okay, I can also go the other way around. I can start from month equal to 12, and I can say month is 12. Oh, no, then I'll have to change the sign here and everything. But yeah, you can also go downward. You start with a big value, you keep subtracting one, and then that way also it will work.

Speaker 1  46:21  
Yeah, month minus one. So raga of says there is space between month and slash. No, it looks like that, but there is not. Oh, yeah, maybe no, there is none. It prints it like that. Okay. Anyway, so I hope this part is clear. Shreya says, What is session again? Session is just like your trading session, right? You trade. You don't trade 24 hours, right? You trade between 915 and 330 Okay, that's the session when your markets are trading. Okay, so you only want to look for signals when the session is ongoing. That's why. Okay, that's what the session represents here. Okay, now there are two important keywords that we use to control the flow of the logic in any kind of loop, but we'll see an example with for loop, which are the break and the continue. Now, how do they work? Now, if I do this for i in range 10, it prints all these numbers. Can you tell me why 10 is not printed? You can answer in the chat box. Why is there no 10 here? I

Speaker 1  48:03  
Yes, if you remember, 10 is not the end point is excluded, correct? Great. Now I'm writing the same loop, but I'm adding a condition here. I'm saying, if i is two, then break the loop. So I'm saying break, okay, and I run it so I zero, all good. I is one, all good. As soon as it becomes two, I say break. So what break does is that it brings it breaks the loop and brings control out of the loop. Okay, we broke the loop. As the name is pretty evident. It's called break.

Unknown Speaker  49:06  
What does continue do? So what continue does is that, and I'm looking at this example now.

Speaker 1  49:17  
So for i in range 10. Okay. I'm printing 1234, as soon as I is five, I hit this continue. So what continue does is it proceeds with the next value of i and it skips this part. Okay, so continue says skip the remaining part for this iteration and move on with the next value of i, which in this case, will be six, right? Okay, so let's try and run this one then. So. So you see 012345, as soon as you hit five, it says, continue. Don't worry about this printing. So five does not get printed. And then we move on with 6789, yes, raga of that correct. Skip that. But the remaining part of that particular iteration. Author says is break, continue, similar to try, except, or is it different? They are very different. Okay, break and continue. We are using here to control the flow of the logic, try and accept is a different thing that will study later. It is for error management. Okay, that is a different topic. All right. So Sharia says So continue is skip function, yeah, in a way, it skips the remaining part of the code, remaining part of that iteration. Yeah. All right, so yeah, these are two more tools at our disposal to control the flow of the logic. Okay. Yeah. Any questions on break and continue.

Speaker 1  51:31  
Okay, great, brilliant. Now, one quick question, have you guys already studied functions as part of your course, or is this the first time Functions in Python, so you have already, okay, great, in primers, yeah, basic, that's great. That's great. So we'll go over it quickly. So functions are very, very important. So while the loops allow us to iterate over a given sequence of data, right functions are like a machine. They allow us to build some code that is reusable again and again. Okay, so what is a function? In general? Function is a machine or a factory, right? Suppose you have a factory for producing bread. Now, in this factory, you put ingredients like you can put flour, you can put water, you can put east, you can put some salt, whatever it goes into this factory, something, some magic happens, and you get some output. Okay, so this is a function in mathematics. You can have simple functions where you can have x and y as input and they go in as input. What is the magic done here? Suppose you are calculating x square plus y square, and whatever is the value, you get that value as output. So this is a function, okay. Now, in Python, you have seen different kinds of functions. So one, you have seen the inbuilt ones, like your LAN. Okay. Lan was giving you length, correct length of any list, say, GDP. So, LAN was inbuilt. I did not create it, nor did you. It came inbuilt. Okay, similarly, there are other inbuilt functions. Second you have seen methods like the append method, append you used with a list correct. So append is a special kind of function which you can only use with lists right or the upper lower with strings. You have seen some examples today. Third one are like inbuilt functions from other libraries, like you saw, NP, dot, log function that we imported from NumPy, correct. So those were all inbuilt. We did not create them, but we have our own workflows, and we need to create our own functions, right? Because our work is unique, okay? We have to calculate things that we want. So how do we do that? So for that, again. We need to learn the syntax. Okay,

Speaker 1  55:09  
so let me clear these things up, and let's do the syntax. So what is the syntax for creating our own function. As many of you know, we start with the def keyword, D, E, F, okay. As soon as you see D, E, F, you are defining a function, then you can give some name to this function. You can put a colon, then after one indent, you can have the body of the function. So you can write whatever logic here. But before that, you can also provide input, suppose x, comma, y, and then you can put the colon, okay, and then some magic will happen here, whatever computations, and you will have some final output that you can return out of this function. Okay, so return keyword is important, so whatever computation happened, suppose the value is in some z and you can return that, okay, now we can see Some examples.

Speaker 1  56:40  
So, yeah, inbuilt functions, you know, minimum, round list, okay. Like, this is an inbuilt function, minimum. What's the minimum? One, two and three, one, okay, so this is all inbuilt, so I'm not going too much into it. Again, the append, you know, like you can append stuff over list. So these are also inbuilt methods. You call them methods, NP, dot, log. So this log is a function which comes from NumPy here, but currently we are discussing user defined functions, okay, and this is the syntax, so def keyword, you can see, what are we trying to do here? Let's just focus on this example. This is a this is a good example. Okay, so def means we are defining a function, my custom function, whatever name we can give, okay, what are the inputs, x, y and z, and then what are we trying to calculate x square plus y, square minus z. So we calculate that, put it in a value k, and we return K. Okay. This creates a function. Now I have run this cell, so this function is created. Now, once created, I can start using it. So when we use a function. It's called, calling a function. Okay, so I can say my custom function, and I can give it any three numbers, and I can run this, I'll get this output, yeah, so this XYZ then become local variables within this function. Okay, yeah, so these inputs are local to this function. They are not global variables because I am not defining them here outside the function. They are only valid inside the function. Okay, anyway, but this is called calling the function I've just I just called a function that I created. Okay, similarly, can you tell me what this function is trying to

Speaker 1  59:00  
do? Yes, it's taking a number and creating the cube. Yeah, correct. Okay. Sharia says, What is chaining of functions? Very good. So chaining is when you use two or more functions, one after the other, like, here. Okay, so this is called chaining. First of all, I'm using the list function to convert a tuple to a list. Then I'm checking the what is the maximum value within that list, then I'm checking the type. So I'm just so if I have this tuple, I can check the length, and I can also check the type of this output three, right? So I can put a type function on top of this, right? Whatever output comes from the length I am checking type. So the type of that thing is three. So this is called. Chaining,

Speaker 1  1:00:10  
yeah, nested function is like chaining function, yes. Author says, I have huge doubt between a class and a function. They are very, very different concepts for classes, there are separate lectures planned, I think next to next one on object oriented programming, so we will discuss classes that day. Okay? Today, we are not discussing classes, only discussing functions. Okay, so one step at a time, function is an easier concept, so we are looking at it now. Okay, all right, so now you know how to define a function. Another example. This function is called negative or not. It takes some input. If that number is less than zero, it returns negative number. Else it returns non negative number. Okay. Now, a lot of people get confused between printing and returning. So when you print something, it only shows you in the output. It doesn't send a number out of the function as output, right? So suppose in your factory you are creating bread, and once bread is created, someone gives you the photo of bread instead of the real bread that is printing. But if you want the actual output, you have to return it like this, using the return keyword, okay, so then you can utilize it downstream. So for example, if I run this, okay, I create this one and run this, I get non negative number as the output, which is a string correct. This, I can save in some other variable called output, and I can then work on this output. I can maybe check the type of it, or, you know, maybe add another string to it. I

Speaker 1  1:02:24  
and so on. So that's why returning, oh, then, of course, I can't check the type, because I can only, yeah, I can. I mean, I can work with this one, right? So I can modify it, or whatever. So uh,

Speaker 1  1:02:45  
right? This is possible only because I'm returning it out, so it's coming out of the function, then I'm taking it and doing something with it. Okay? So that is so remember two things, the def keyword and the return keyword. These are important as far as a function is concerned. Now there is another way of

Unknown Speaker  1:03:12  
creating a user defined function. Okay, it's called the lambda function.

Speaker 1  1:03:21  
Now the lambda functions are not very common, like the standard syntax that we saw.

Speaker 1  1:03:32  
They are another way of writing a function when the functions logic is very simple, so that we can write it in one line of code. Second advantage is that we don't have to save it to the memory so it's used on the fly. Okay, that's why they are also called anonymous functions. But if you are new, then don't worry about lambda functions. Just focus on the standard way, okay? Because that is that can handle any kind of situation, right? Yeah. But as you grow like more, as you become more sophisticated Python programmer, then you will see lambda function will pop up with this kind of syntax, lambda, then input, x, then colon, then you see, this is like a one line if statement, right, negative effects less than zero. It's non negative. So these two things do the same job. This is just like one line of code. This is 12345, lines of code. Okay, not necessarily that it reduces the time or anything. It's just a more efficient way of writing. And secondly, it will definitely save you memory, because it's not saved to the memory. Okay? So. Because here we are giving it a proper name, and then this thing is saved. We can reuse it again. Here we are just writing a statement used, and it's gone out.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:15  
Yes, so Raghav, the output of this function is a one line

Speaker 1  1:05:25  
if statement. It's coming using that one line if statement, okay, so any simple logic, like, like, if I give you a number, you just have to tell if it's negative or non negative. I can just write it in one line using a one line if statement, and I can use this lambda x, colon, negative effect less than zero. Else, non negative. Okay, so for very simple logics, you can use this lambda syntax. But again, it's a question of syntax, okay, if you are new, then probably you can ignore this for now, but just know that something like this exists, okay, and yeah, we will see a few examples later. But main use case for lambda function is that it is like it helps save memory, okay, because we can use them without saving them. Okay. Apart from that, you will get same output also if, even if you write in this standard

Unknown Speaker  1:06:40  
way, money

Speaker 1  1:06:45  
content says, What is the benefit of saving memory? Memory is resource you are paying for it, right? So anytime you are running some code, you are utilizing your computer's memory, correct, whatever GB some if you're and if you're running like big trading strategies like HFT or whatever, then you know costs can really add up because you're using millions of data points and whatever. Okay, so yeah, then the choice of your code is very important. Okay, so, yeah, not necessarily faster, but better in terms of resource management. Okay, cool, all right, so, yeah, here, here, there are some examples of user defined functions that you can check very simple ones, like creating a square and then adding and so on. So at this point, we will take a break. Okay, the time here is 15, 08, so maybe we'll take like, 10 minute break, so we will be back at 1718, ISP, okay, and then we will continue with the core of Today's lecture, which is the library part, NumPy and pandas, okay, and if you have any questions, you can keep posting, and we will look at them all right, see you in 10 minutes. Bye.

Speaker 1  1:18:10  
Hi guys, so we are back again. Yeah, can you please let me know in the chat box, if I'm audible, i

Unknown Speaker  1:18:25  
Great. Thank you. So we start with the next part of this lecture, which is the libraries, modules and packages.

Speaker 1  1:18:37  
So up till now, we have seen loops, we have seen functions, etc, right now you see that for any type of use case, people have done so much of coding, right? So, for example, suppose I am a scientist, maybe say I am a physicist. So for my physics workflows, I would have created so many different functions, right? If I am a mathematician or astronomer, or, for example, a trade quant, right, each one of these people will create their own different different functions, data structures, right, which will help them in their own workflows. So for dealing with numbers, right? People created lot of functions which help us deal with numbers, for example, right? And along with functions, they also created data structures. So of course, we saw the list, tuple, dictionary. These come in built, but they are not the best suited for numerical calculations, and that's where people. Started creating data structures which are more suited for faster calculations, okay, larger calculations, okay. And then once they created the code, they made it open source, which means you can go on GitHub and you can see the whole code so that everyone can use it. That's called Open Source. That is the main power of Python is that it has a very strong community, okay, and people make their codes available for free in an open source setting. And that's how the libraries like NumPy and pandas are as well, right? So for different workflows, there are different libraries. So anything to do, do with numbers, NumPy, anything to do with scientific computing, there's a library called Saeed by anything to do with visualization. You have met plot lab, okay, and there, there are, of course, other libraries, like sea born, anything to do with machine learning and AI. You have got scikit learn Keras and so on. So a very, very rich community, very, very rich set of codes are available, and when they are put together as a package, right? We call it library, okay. So for example, NumPy is a library, pandas is a library, okay, and so on. Some libraries come inbuilt, and some libraries we have to import, so install from the web and then use them, right? So, so, so the OS library, okay, it gives us different functions to deal with the operating system. It comes in built, but we have to import it in our Python environment, which is the Jupyter Notebook for today, where we can then use different functions which are defined inside this library. Okay, so I will say, import OS. Now it's imported, then I can check the directory, Dir. Dir gives lifts everything that has come inside this library. So I see like there's a bunch of stuff which has come inside this library. Okay? So you can see there are different types of functions. There are different data structures, okay, not data structures here, but functions mostly. So you see there is one called Get CWD. Okay. Now, what is get CWD? CWD stands for your current working directory, okay, and of course, you are like working in an operating system, right? So for example, you could be working on Windows, so that's your operating system, right? And you have got your files and folders in a specific way in your laptop or computer. So this OS library helps you manage all that. So when I ask OS dot get CWD, it gives me like, where on my computer Am I operating currently? What is my current working directory or folder, right? So I am currently in operating in this particular folder. So anything I save will be saved here from this Jupyter Notebook. Okay, all right. Author, that is what your so this all this file systems, etc. Are you're based on your OS, which would be Windows for me. Maybe you're, if you're using a Linux or a MacBook, they have their own file systems, right? Okay, I can also change my current working directory using another function called os.ch Dir. Okay. You can give it whatever path, so maybe in C drive or whatever drive you have, and then that becomes your current working directory. Okay, so this is the OS library. Similarly, we can import other libraries. So the first one we are going to discuss today is called the numpy library. So NumPy Library is a very, very important piece of like collection of code which helps us to deal with numbers, okay, and trading is all about numbers, so this forms like a backbone. We may not use it directly. We use some other libraries which are built on top of this. But it. Important still to understand NumPy. Okay. So how do I install NumPy? So you can use this sort of command, pip install NumPy. If you don't already have it. I already have it on my system, so I will just use import NumPy as NP. Okay. Now NumPy is imported into my environment. Now I will check some help on NumPy. Okay, so first I can do help NumPy, so it gives me the doc string kind of thing again, right? This is the documentation for the whole of library. So if we read through it quickly, what does NumPy provide? First of all, it provides an array, object of arbitrary, homogeneous item. So this reads complex, but basically it provides you a data structure called arrays, or NumPy arrays. Okay? It is a very, very efficient data structure in which we can store numbers. And then, if you remember that from your high school, if you did mathematics, you would remember how you do vectorized operations, right? How do you do element by, element, addition, subtraction, multiplication, okay, those happen very fast, because computers are pretty good with matrices and vectors, right? They are like very fast, so fast mathematical operations over these arrays and then some advanced level of like mathematical transformations, like Fourier transform, random number generation and so on. Okay, these capabilities are also served by NumPy, and as you come down, you will be able to see, you know, different things that come in this library. It's a very big library, so we won't go in everything, because, of course, we use pandas more, which is built on top of NumPy, but we will just go through some basic stuff. Okay, so first thing, first, you can check the version of NumPy. The one I am running is 1.2 6.4 and I'm pretty happy with it. This is one of the letter versions, okay, but you can this is how you can check. And each library keeps getting updated. So whoever is maintaining this library will make some improvement, some changes to the code in this library, and as a result, you have like, series of versions, okay? And you can select a version which is compatible with the rest of your libraries. Okay, so in this case, 1.2 6.4 is good for me. Okay. Now the main thing to understand is,

Speaker 1  1:28:20  
okay, I have a task for you guys. Okay, this will explain why you actually need NumPy. Suppose I have two lists, A and B, okay, now your task is to create a list C, which is element wise, sum of elements of A and B. So for example, in C the first element would be one plus six, element wise sum, right? That seven next is two plus seven, nine, okay, these are like adding vectors, okay, and so on, whatever. So can you suggest me some code in the chat box, like, how are you going what is the logic to create C based on whatever you know? So you know, these are Python lists, right? They are not any other data structure. These are Python lists. So how are you going to create C, okay, money, kandan says you can do a plus b, okay, oh, first we need to run this. Can you do a plus b? No. Why? Because when you do a plus b with lists, Python lists, this is what it does so A and B, it is not giving you element wise sum. Even if you do list on this, still it's. Not giving you what you want. Okay? Also, Carlos, it's the same thing, right? If you do, c is equal to a plus b, and you check C, it's not what we want we want element wise, sum.

Speaker 1  1:30:20  
Okay, so, it. Account says, loop through the elements and add one by one. So that is correct. Okay, that's how, if we were just using Python lists, and we wanted to get something like that, and because these are like equal sized lists, so there are five elements in each. So we can do something like for i in range length of take any one of them, maybe a what we need to do is we need to create some C, which is a of i, plus b of i, and then we can maybe put this constant in a list. So, okay, let's call the list this thing, and let's call this as value, and see dot append value. Okay. And now, once we do all this hard work, we get this. Okay, so this is painful, right? So Python lists are not exactly suited for numerical calculations, so that's where NumPy comes in, and we'll see like we can convert these lists to NumPy arrays, and then you see how easy the calculation becomes. So let's make this a is equal to NP. Dot array is a function from NumPy library which converts a Python list to numpy array. And similarly, we can do np dot array over b, and let's call them something different, so that we don't overwrite let's call it a array and B array, okay. And let's see how they look. So how does a array look? So when you look at it, you are like, it looks pretty similar to a list, right? Just that, of course, this array return over here. There's that. But when you actually come, come to think of it. Now, this is like a vector, okay, you remember from your high school linear algebra, what is a vector? Vector is like a point in a multi dimensional space, right? So you can add two of when you add two vectors, you do element wise operations, right? So now we can do vectorized operations. For example, if I want the sum, okay, I if I want to create the C, I don't have to go through this for loop. I can just do a array plus B. B array, okay, and I can get a new array which is the sum of the two. Why? Only addition? I I can now do any kind of mathematical operation, right? Maybe I can. I want to do element wise multiplication, so I can also do that. Okay. So these are called vectorized operations. They are like, very, very fast because you achieve them in a batch wise format. Okay, so, yeah, agreed that's correct. Your code is correct. Okay. Now a very good point is that the numpy behind the scene is using C language, which is a very, very fast language lower level. So all these operations are much, much faster compared to, say, something like pure Python, or like running a list operation. Okay, sure says arrays are index automatically, Yes, correct. So it automatically detects the location for each element and it does element wise operations. Okay, so.

Speaker 1  1:35:02  
All right, so you see the benefit of NumPy. You can have the easier See, Python is easy to write. It's like one of the easier programming languages, and C is a very fast language. NumPy brings both together. You are writing code in Python format, but your operations are getting executed at like, sea level speeds, okay, of course you are not able to see it here, because these are very small operations. When you do, like, very big operations, you will be able to see so, yeah. So the rest of the code explains something very similar to what we discussed, and there are multiple ways of creating NumPy arrays. So the first one we just saw, right that's the np dot array. Another one, another way of creating is using np dot Lynn space. So when we are trying to create a numpy array using NP, dot, linspace, what we do is that we give it like, Okay, I want numbers between one and 10. I want five numbers and point equal to true. That means include 10 as well, and then linspace means linear spacing, so everything will be like, equidistant, right? So I can create an array like this. You see it goes from one, 3.25 5.5 7.75 10, and the distance between any two of successive numbers will be the same, okay? I can create maybe 10 numbers between one and 10. Okay, maybe I want to create 20 numbers so I can use NP, dot Lynn space. Okay. Now the third way. The third way is using NP, dot arrange, okay. Now what a range does is very similar to the range function that we have seen before, although this time it is working on the arrays. Okay. So when I say NP, dot, a range go from zero to four with a step of point five. Okay, it does something like this. So again, the end is excluded, just like your range. But yeah, it just goes from zero to four with a jump of point five. Okay, okay. Mani kandan says, Why is Lin space not showing as array? That's a good question, but we can always check, okay, what is the type of array in space? That's a good observation. And you see it's NumPy and array, which means it is, again, an array. Okay.

Speaker 1  1:38:22  
Amit. Says, Can you please explain lean space? So linspace is like linear spacing. So what we are doing in Lean spaces, we are giving it two numbers starting and ending, and we are telling how many numbers we want in between, and each of those numbers are like equidistant. Okay, so say I want numbers between start at five and at 20, and if I do linspace, they are all equally distant. Okay, so it will just break this into whatever. If I want four numbers. In this case, it will be five numbers if I include the end point. Otherwise, yeah, it will equally break and it will just give us, give us those break points, basically. Okay. Akshay says, How is linspace different from a range? Okay? Now, well, they are just two different ways of creating arrays right now with a range, it just follows on from the range from basic Python, right? You can create similar kind of arrays from both technically, right, but it also gives you this stepping thing, okay? So yeah, and there is also option of not having this step in, which case it will just go at like, integral values, right? Whereas this is. This will almost always give you some floating point number, because when you split generally, it comes, you know, as a floating number. So they have like different use cases. They can also be used to generate similar kind of arrays, right? They are just like standard functions defined within the numpy library, so we have to learn each of them. Okay, all right. So there are other ways also, which allow us to create NumPy arrays. So, okay, these are some other examples of a range. One interesting one is like, if I just wanted an array which is filled with 500 zeros, I can use np dot zeros. If I want an array filled with 50 ones, I can use np dot once and so on. Okay, right? So these are some ways of creating arrays, NumPy arrays. This numpy array versus python list, I think we already have discussed it right, like how it allows for vectorized operations and so on. But just to illustrate the speed part of it, let us look at this example. So here I have a list comprehension. Okay, i for i in range 1000 so this will definitely create a list correct. It's a list of 1000 numbers, and you can also check the type. And now I am converting the same list into an array, but saving it different in a variable, B, okay, B is an array, okay. So a is list, B is array, okay. Now I'm using this percent, percent time it to time. You know how, approximately, on average, how much time does it take to compute the maximum value? For example, this is in a list. This is in an array. Okay, so first I'll run this, then I'll run this, and let's see the difference.

Speaker 1  1:42:32  
Okay, okay, so look at this. So when it is a list, it took me roughly 17 microseconds plus minus. Some error here it may it took me four microseconds. So you see that the differential, like the multiple here, is almost four or five times. So the numpy array is like five times faster, okay, in terms of computation time.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:02  
So you can imagine, if you are an HFT trader, or you are an HFT quant, or, for that matter,

Speaker 1  1:43:10  
some quant, even in lft, MFT, dealing with huge amounts of data, this is like, four or five times faster. Okay, so when you're doing big things that this will add up. Okay, yes, array has a predefined structure. We'll come to that as well. So next is the vectorized operations that we have already gone through. This one is the BMI example, but pretty much the same thing, right? How it does the batch wise operation. So I'm not going into that part, but yeah, you can just do computation like this with arrays, like you can divide and then square, whatever. You can't do this with Python lists. Okay. Anyway, you can go through this later. But more importantly, how do we use the numpy for generating random samples? Okay, this is a very important use case. Why? If you remember, you would have had a lecture where you computed value at risk. Do you remember some Monte Carlo simulations? Okay, in Excel, probably. And when you did that every time you had to generate a random sample from a normal distribution or some other distribution, right T or whatever, to compute something. And Monte Carlo simulation is a very important technique in general in finance. Specially in derivative pricing and risk computations and so on. Okay, so NumPy library allows us to generate random samples from different statistical distributions. Okay, that is one of the important use cases. Now, if you check, check, help, NP, again, it lists it here, random number generation, okay. How it actually achieves it is using a sub library within NumPy, which is called NP, dot random. And you see like, if you see it lists all the different statistical distributions from which you can generate random samples, okay? And there's quite a lot of them, and you can also generate random integers as well, okay, but let's say, if I'm using this random dot random, I don't know what it does, so of course, I can check the help. Just do a question mark. So what does this do? Return random integers from low inclusive to high exclusive. So very simple, right? So between one and 10, give me any five numbers random. Every time I run this, I get different number. Similarly, I can generate random numbers from normal distribution. I just have to give the mean and standard deviation, okay? And, yeah, basically, these are.dot.so these are 5000 numbers, okay, similarly uniform distribution. Okay, what if I give the mean a zero and standard deviation as one, that becomes standard normal distribution correct. So suppose I generate 10,000 numbers from a normal distribution with mean zero and variance one. So if you remember normal distribution, your mean is zero and your variance or standard deviation is one, then there's very high probability that you will get numbers in this region right around zero. And if you take the mean of these samples, it will also be close to zero correct. So if I look at x, these are my numbers. If I take the mean NP, dot mean, you see this number is very close to zero, because this is the mean of the samples. And similarly, if I check the standard deviation, it is close to one, because that's how I generated the numbers, okay, similarly, uniform. How does uniform distribution look? At some looks something like this, right? So each number has like, equal chance of turning up, because the probability distribute distribution is flat. Okay. Anyway, so we can generate random numbers different distributions, but then there's a problem here. And the problem is that every time we run the same code, we get some different output, like you remember from Excel. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:49:15  
so

Speaker 1  1:49:20  
let me run the same code four times, and you let me know if it's giving the same output or not. Can you tell me if the output is same or not? And why do

Unknown Speaker  1:49:46  
yes, it's different, right? Is this number same as this? No,

Speaker 1  1:49:55  
correct. What is the reason? Reason is that. But even for generating these numbers, these numbers are not actually truly random. They are pseudo random. Actually random number generation is a very difficult task, okay, so even behind the scene, NumPy is also using some algorithm to come up with these numbers. Now that algorithm, the values that it generates, depends on the initial value that is supplied to it, okay? And that initial value is called the seed, okay, so if you give the same seed, you will get the same set of rent random numbers. Otherwise you will not. So for example, here I am seeding it with 17, okay, and I am running the same code. Now you see you are getting same numbers, okay, before you are getting different numbers, right? So that's why seeding is important. Okay, we use reading to get the same set of random numbers. And why is this important? Because, say, you are making a project for your company. So you build some project, you did some analysis based on some random numbers. Next day you reach office and you are giving presentation, you rerun the code, but this time, your analysis is like all over the place, because your random numbers have changed. So to avoid all those situations, we can use seeding. Okay. So author says random pulls values from standard, normal, no, it pulls random integers. Okay, Rand int, random integers. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:52:22  
okay, I don't think there is any other question as such. There's a question by zoom in, don't modern CPUs have special random number generator blocks? Yeah, but probably they are also using some pseudo algorithm, okay?

Speaker 1  1:52:49  
A grim says, Can the same be done in Excel? Yeah, Excel automatically does this basically, but in a different way. It's a different kind of platform, but it also has some pseudo algorithms behind the scene which is generating those random numbers. Sharia says, What is seed 17? Why 17? Yuan says, So 17 is not special. You can put any number, okay, as long as these numbers are same, you get the same set of random numbers. Okay, so seeding, as I explained, is the initial value that goes into the algorithm, and based on that, it produces the rest of the values. Okay, so these values are the same. I can even put some other value here, I can say, put 89 and then if I put 89 here, I'll also get same values again. Okay, so 2.999 2.99 Okay, so, yeah,

Speaker 1  1:54:02  
okay. So seed is the value which will determine how the tree will grow. Okay, Mango seed. If you sow the mango seed, you will get a mango tree. All the numbers will be like that. If you put a strawberry seed, you will get a strawberry plant. Okay, so the initial seed is important for generating rest of the numbers. Okay. Raga, all right.

Speaker 1  1:54:42  
HazI, says, Why is it float 64 so float 64 is just a way of storing floats in a 64 bit format, right? It has nothing to do with normal distribution, right? It is just to do with how you store, like big decimal numbers. They don't need to come from a normal distribution. They may or may not. Doesn't matter. Okay. Anyway, so, yeah, so this is just some code block. It is like visualizing, but, yeah, don't worry about it, because we haven't done matplotlib and C bond, which are just visualization libraries, but they are just for visualizing how the random numbers are generated. Okay, so you look at this. This flattish one is for the from the uniform the peaky one is from the standard novel. Anyway. Now we need to learn about three important attributes of NumPy arrays. And NumPy arrays don't always have to be one dimensional. They can also be two dimensional, you know, like a matrix. So if I generate them like this, right, with this, brackets, 246, comma, six, 810, now this is like a matrix, because this is now become two dimensional, right? And it is still a numpy array. I can check the type. I can check the dimension using n, dim attribute, so the dimension is two, the shape. Shape is a very important attribute, okay, which tells me in a tuple, it will tell me the number of rows, comma, number of columns. So how many rows does this matrix have? Two? How many columns three? So the shape is two, comma, three.

Speaker 1  1:56:56  
Okay. And I can also check that data type. So the data type in this case is integer 32 bit integer. Okay. If I change this to say some float, it will automatically take some float. Data Type here, so it took float 64 okay. But 64 bit will occupy more memory, right? So we can also actually determine the data type while we are actually creating this array. So for that, we have the D type that we can supply data type, okay, so it, while you are creating the array, you can specify the data type complex, or maybe in 30 to that thing you can supply, okay, otherwise it will auto detect which is okay. Uh, money can say, Isn't the array homogeneous? Yes, it is homogeneous. So if you make one of them float, all will become float, right? It is like that. It can either contain integers, all integers, or all floats. Sharia says, What is a 32 bit integer? So in memory you have like bits, right? That's how you store things in a computer. 32 bit allows you, it's basically specifying a size on the memory in which you want to store an integer, right? So if you have a very, very long integer which are like 10,000 digits, then you probably want a higher bit data type, okay. Yuan says in two dimensional arrays, they need to be the same number of elements, each, each. I think you mean the row, yeah, that's correct. So you need the same number of elements

Unknown Speaker  1:59:24  
in each row. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:59:27  
that's correct. Cool. So these are three important attributes, and dim shape and D type. Okay. Now another function that will remind you of Excel little bit is called np dot where. Okay, now, np dot where. Functions in this way that if you. You have a condition,

Speaker 1  2:00:08  
and if that condition is true, okay, actually, it's better by explain it using this particular example. Okay, so what am I doing here? I'm creating an array, and I'm specifying the data type to into 32 okay, it's created. Now, if I do something like this, x less than six so I get a Boolean array right? So wherever this number is less than six, I'll get a true, right? Wherever it is greater than six, I get a false. If I do x less than six and x is greater than three. So this so how does logic work? So whenever I say end and means, both conditions have to be true for it to be true. If anyone is false, it fails the filter. So which number here is both less than six and is greater than three. So there is just one number which is five, which is both less than six and greater than three. So that's why you get true only here. Okay, now, this is a, this is my condition, so I will call it condition.

Speaker 1  2:01:56  
Okay. Now, NP, dot where works like the if in Excel. Okay. So if I say np dot where, and I give this condition wherever, it's true, it's going to give me a buy signal. Else it's going to give me a sell signal. Okay, let me run this and you already know that. So wherever this is false, false, false, I'm getting sell, sell, sell, sell, wherever this is true, I'm getting a buy. Okay, so in Excel you use if, if, condition, if function for this.

Unknown Speaker  2:02:43  
Okay, there's another way of using NP, dot, where, which is what if i

Speaker 1  2:02:56  
What if I don't tell it like i What if I don't tell it what output I want in case the condition is true or false, and I just give the condition, then you see, in this case, it returns me the address or the location Where this condition is true. So why did it return me six? Because this is only true at number six, okay, only for five. Okay. Five is at which location 0123456, so it tells me that at location number six. This condition is true. Okay. Now, if I want the exact value stored at that location, I can always either I can just use like this, right? What is the value at location six? It's five or I can also say, what is the value at NP, dot where, whatever this is evaluated to. So you we know that this will evaluate to six, right? This is evaluated to six, so this will also give us, but this is in an array format, okay? So, yeah, that is how we use NP, dot, where. Okay. Now, what is D, type u4, so this is like UTF. So when this is like data type for strings, like you have int 32 for integers, float, 32 for floats like like that you have you for you eight. These are just data types of strings like how much memory they occupy and their properties. Okay, so. All right. So this is your np dot, where. Now, one thing I want you to try is what will happen if you had a two dimensional or a three dimensional array? Okay, then how will the output change? So that is the homework. Okay, try it and see what output you get. You'll get something very similar, okay, but the dimension will be different, but you have to try it at your end and let me know in the next session. Okay, all right, so that is NP, dot, where, similarly, we have, like many, many other functions coming from the numpy library, like np dot, log, we already saw, right? So if I have some array like this, I can take the log of it, then NP, dot, exp. It gives me the exponential, right? And like tons of mathematical functions. Author says, end, name equal to two and three is homework. Yes, yes. Like it's non graded. You just play around with the code and see what you get. Okay, all right. So like this, you can keep on checking the numpy library. It's a wonderful library, but what we generally do is we don't use NumPy on its own. We use it via pandas, because pandas is actually built on top of NumPy. So the creator of pandas use NumPy to build pandas, okay, so for all the numerical processing behind pandas, library, NumPy is being used. But what exactly is pandas okay? What does it provide? So, like NumPy, provided us with numpy array structure, pandas as Shreyas correctly mentioned this for panel data, right panel data. Think of it like spreadsheet, like Excel, tabular data, but if you keep stack many spreadsheets together, it becomes panel, okay? So it's mostly used for dealing with two dimensional data, like a spreadsheet, which means it has both rows and columns, although it also provides another data structure, which is called panda series, which is used for storing one dimensional data, okay, and for First we are going to see this panda series. This is for one dimensional data. You can see it's just like a column, right? But it is measured on one dimension alone. Okay? There is no column name as such, so we are not monitoring the column name part of it. It's just like row wise, okay, data frame is 2d it monitors the rows as well as the columns. Okay, so, yeah, let's first discuss series. Then we go to data frame. So

Speaker 1  2:08:47  
okay, so just like before, how do I import pandas? Import pandas is PD, okay. Now, assuming you are trading a strategy from Monday to Friday, and you get some returns, and you store them in a Python list. Okay, you call that returns list, like with NumPy you had NP, dot array, similarly to convert this Python list to Panda series, you have a function, PD, dot, series. Okay, so all you do is you take this list and put it inside this function to get a series. So

Speaker 1  2:09:44  
so now you can observe that you have a one dimensional data structure. But what is dimension? By the way, what do we want? What do we mean? So a point, suppose in in the space a point has no. Zero dimension, right? What can you measure with the point? Just the point, right? Anything that you can measure on a line has got one dimension. It's called 1d so what can you measure on a line your height? Yeah, maybe it just goes like one way from zero onwards. There's no negative height, but, or say the temperature that can go negative or positive. What is two dimension? Your paper or your tablet is two dimension, right? Because you can measure something on x axis and you can measure something on Y axis. This is 2d Okay. Now this circle is in a two dimension. Okay, so this 1d what is 3d we live in 3d world. Okay, you me, everyone. We exist in a 3d world, physically. So maybe some object I don't know, like a cube. So there are three dimensions, height, width, and what's the third one breadth? Okay, so maybe, like a sphere. Sphere is 3d, circle is 2d, okay, a line is 1d and a point has no Dimension Zero, D. So you can see, this is like a line. You are just measuring it, 01234, so this is basically one dimensional data structure, series, okay, but you will say, Why do I need a series when I already had numpy array? So the answer is, you can give this thing a bit more color, so you can also supply something called as the index. Okay, so when I'm creating PD dot series, I pass in my list and I also give an index. So when now I look at it, I have more context. Before I didn't know, when did I make 5% return, but now I know I made it on Monday. Okay, I can also override this index. I can give it some short form like this. So now I have like one to you, right, etc, so you see this looks more similar to a Python dictionary, where you had a key and a value mapping. In fact, there is a relation between a Python dictionary and a pandas list because they are very similar. So for example, like here, instead of the key, I can just give the index value. So someone asks you, how much did your strategy make on Thursday, you can just instead of key, you can just put the index value and you can get the answer. Similarly, if I have a dictionary like this, I can straight away throw this inside this function, PD, dot, series, and I can get a series out of that. So all my keys, they become the index, all my values, they become the values. Okay, so you can also check the individual elements. The index values are this in 64 and what were the values here? A, B, B, V, right? These. The data type is Object. Object is similar to string. Okay. All right. Now, with a panda series, again, there are some special methods which are attached. So for example, you can check the unique elements right? What are the unique elements, A, B, D and C? Value counts give you how many times each element repeats. So a comes four times, B comes three times, and so on. Right. And describe gives you statistical summary. Okay, so so it will give you the total count, which one comes maximum number of times and how many times? However, here your values were of string. Or object type, right? But what if your values are like this? Now, these are numerical values, right? In this case, the describe will function little different, because it's going to give you the mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum and all those things. This is only possible with a number, right? You can't have like, minimum value with a string. So here the describe functions little differently, right? So I think this is a repeated thing, yeah, maybe one thing we didn't see is end name. So end name is like, it will always be one, because string series is a one dimensional object, right? So this will always be one, but yeah, rest we have seen, okay, shape. Shape gives me what number of rows, comma, number of columns. So there's actually no column. There's only rows. So you see there is like nothing here. 10. Comma, nothing.

Speaker 1  2:16:16  
Yeah, okay, athera will come to I lock and lock in the data frame part. So yeah, I mean, the warning you got was correct. We'll come. We'll address it. Okay. So yeah, that was your one dimensional data structure or series. Now we will discuss the two dimensional data structure or data frame. Okay, so first thing, first, how do I create a simple data frame, like you had a function called PD, dot series. Similarly, you have a function called PD or data frame, and then inside you can put data like this. Okay, so the name, role, marks, etc, and when you run this, okay, this is a dict dictionary, right? You get something like this. Now, this looks like an Excel sheet. This is called a data frame, so it. This has three components. So, number one, it has got the index, it has got the columns, and it has got the values, okay, this is the index, this is the columns and this is the values, okay, and we can pretty much access each of them individually. So if I do my data frame, dot index, I get the index. Here it is like a range sort of object which goes like default object, right? It goes from 0123,

Speaker 1  2:18:17  
right? So, start at zero, stop at four, step of one.

Unknown Speaker  2:18:30  
Okay.

Speaker 1  2:18:35  
How do I access the index that we just saw? Data Frame, dot index. And if I check the type, it's a special kind of object. It's called range index, right? Okay, range sort of object. How about data, frame dot columns. So we know that these are these look like, just like some list of strings. Okay, name, role, marks and values. Okay, so what are the values which are stored here? It's these number, these values. Okay, the actual data right now, there is a very interesting observation here that, can you tell me, what is the data type, not data type? What is the data structure in which the values are stored in a data frame? So

Speaker 1  2:19:45  
let's check it out. We can always do type and surprise. Surprise, it says numpy array. Okay, so you see how the numpy. And pandas libraries are compatible because panda is built on top of NumPy, and the values in a data frame are stored as NumPy arrays. Okay, in this case, it's like a matrix, because it has 1234, rows and three columns. Okay. Yuan says, Can we change the index to something else, like date? Yes, we can. We'll see how, right. We can just supply it while we are reading it here. No, we can give it our own index. So you see it allows you to this, PD, dot, data frame. Allows you to specify index columns, everything you can. Yeah, so it allows you to, if you don't provide it will default to like the one we have range index, otherwise you can supply, yeah, I'll give you right. It is a 2d array. Nd array is just like n dimensional array, basically just numpy array. Okay. Akshay says, If we import pandas, there is no need to import NumPy, that's correct.

Speaker 1  2:21:31  
Author says D type equal to object has less calculative precision and avoided usually. Yeah, it's mostly like a default whenever you have string type basically, okay, if you want to be more specific, you can supply your own. It allows you to supply your own data type here, right? So, okay, it otherwise, it tries to infer on its own, and it mostly for string, it will turn into object. Okay, cool. So that is the basic structure. Now we will read some stock data that we have stored in a CSV file, and we will see how we can manipulate the data frame in different ways. Okay, so all of you have been provided this file. It's called tcs.ns, dot CSV, and pandas gives us a lot of function to read data from different kinds of files and formats. So if you, if you do, PD, dot, tab, read, see how many options you have, CSV, Excel, HTML, JSON, Park, a pickle, SPSS, SQL. It's very, very like comprehensive, right? But this time, our file is of CSV type, so we do PD, dot read underscore CSV, and we just give the name of the file which is already in my current working directory, which is this, right? You can always check using OS dot get CWD. If this file is in this folder, it will be able to read it directly. Otherwise, you have to give it the whole path. But if I just do this, it will just read the file into a data frame, and then I can save it say as DF, okay, this is my data frame. Now, what this pretty much contains is data for a technology sector stock in India. It's called Tata Consultancy Services or TCS, okay? And generally, this is how you get your finance data. Basically, okay, you get Now, this is daily level, of course, but you get the Open, High, Low, Close adjusted, close volume traded and the direction, like, if the market went up, it's up. If it went down, it's down. First one is, of course, then, because, yeah, first day, you don't know right. Next day you know that it it is higher than yesterday, so you get some value. Okay.

Speaker 1  2:24:51  
Now, Sharia says, can we limit the decimal places up to two? Yes. So now, once we have this. In data frame, we can do so many things with this. Okay, sure, I'll tell you how to do that, but before that, I want to take your attention to something time series data. Currently we are running with a default index. This is not ideal for time series data, because we want to get hold of stuff based on the time. So for example, now if I want to ask a question to this data, like, Okay, what was the high price and the low price? What are the minimum and maximum price in, say, January of 2016 okay, if my row index is like this, I have no idea where that portion of data is, okay. So first thing I want to do is that I don't want date as a column. I want to make this as my index. So while reading this data, I can do that. So I can say I can provide index call, which is the index column as date.

Speaker 1  2:26:28  
Now you see the difference, right? There is no this, 1234, whatever the date is now converted into index, right? But there's another problem. How does Python or pandas know that this value is not a string but a date? Because both have different meaning, right? So for that, we need to tell that this is please treat this thing as a date. This is not some name or string or text, okay, so the way to do that is using

Unknown Speaker  2:27:27  
give the pass date param to true,

Unknown Speaker  2:27:33  
okay, yeah,

Speaker 1  2:27:40  
now I get another warning. It's telling me please specify exactly like which part of which one of this is date and which one is the month. Okay, so for that, I need to also specify the day first. So can you tell me, is this the day or is this the day is 24 the day or 11 the day

Speaker 1  2:28:17  
24 correct? So that day is coming first month is coming later. So I will say day first equal to true. And now this is correct. Okay,

Speaker 1  2:28:41  
yeah, okay. Now, for example, you want help. Suppose you forget, oh, what does parse dates mean? How do you seek help? PD, dot, read,

Unknown Speaker  2:29:02  
CSV question mark. When you do this, you get the whole documentation.

Speaker 1  2:29:13  
Oops, there are, like, too many options available here, so it can also confuse you. But yeah, you can read what this one does, pass dates. Okay, so here, if you go to past dates,

Speaker 1  2:29:38  
it is basically telling you, it's a little in a different like word, but it will tell you, it tells Python to treat that, that particular thing as a as a date, okay, whatever this thing is, right? Not. Is a text, okay, right. Okay, so now we have this right now we have read the data.

Speaker 1  2:30:25  
Now this is my data. I can check the top five values using DF dot, head, and I can check the bottom five values using DF dot, tail.

Unknown Speaker  2:30:44  
Okay. Now,

Speaker 1  2:30:57  
let us see how we can manipulate this data frame. So suppose I only want the high column. What can I do? I can do it like this, DF, high. Okay, you see, I got just the high price. And you see the index, index is the same, but what is the data structure for this? DF high, we can check its type. So

Speaker 1  2:31:43  
it is a series, right? Panda series. Now there's a difference between DF high like this and,

Speaker 1  2:32:00  
okay, so you understand that this was like one column, right? DFI is one column for you to fetch. What if you need high and low? In that case, you have to pass a list. So you have to say df, square brackets, but here you have to give a list like,

Speaker 1  2:32:36  
okay, so this list that you have given, if I just get rid of this. It starts looking like you're putting double brackets, right? This looks like two brackets, but actually, this is a list inside the square bracket, so you only get high and low. But what if I just keep like single element inside a list, right? So I'll just keep this so so can you see some difference between this and this?

Speaker 1  2:33:15  
Yes, correct. They look little different. Yeah, this is two dimensional. This is a data frame because it also mentions the column name. Whereas this is a series and a series, this is one dimensional, so that is the difference. They may contain the same data, but in different type of data structures. Okay, this one is, of course, a data frame, because we put a list inside, and that's how we got this. Okay, great. Similarly, you can get the open and close price. Of course, we are giving it inside a list. This, of course, will give you a data frame and this will give you a list series, as we saw with other column. What if I say df, five to 20, like inside colon, like with a colon. So it will give me from rows five to 20, basically. Okay, so whatever rows you can mention, say 50 to 60, so it will give you that, okay, so you can select which rows you want, right. Similarly, now we are able to create new columns. Also, how do we create new columns?

Speaker 1  2:34:50  
So this is how our data frame looks like, currently correct. Now I want to create another column here, which is the ray. Range. What is the range? It is the high, minus low. Okay, so for that, I just use a vectorized operation, DF, range equal to DF, high minus dF, low. As simple, and I check I have just created a new column called range. And can you tell me what range tells us? Yeah, range is basically telling me the volatility, the difference between the max and the min value, right, high and low. So now we can quickly let us visualize our data. So first, this is my data frame. Let me just first get any value, say, like, close, and I'm just using dot plot. Dot plot is basically a pandas function which uses matplotlib behind the scene, but I can just plot it. So this is my close price, right? And we see there is some missing data over here, because we can see a break, but just forgetting about that, this is, this is my close price. Okay, now I created range, so I can also insert plot the range. This tells me the volatility in a way like high minus low, right? So can you tell me? Why is this? There? Is there a spike here?

Speaker 1  2:36:51  
Yeah, that's because of the covid, covid crash, right? So the market was really volatile around March of 2020 so you see how the volatility or the range has spiked. Okay, so on the same day, probably there was a day when there was a difference of 300 rupees between the high and the low prices. Okay, so that's the covid, and you see another thing you can see is that the volatility has gone up compared to 2016 18, this period. Now, generally it is more volatile. At least this data is like little old. It is only till 2021 but all data tells some story. Okay, now you are able to visualize the data. You can find the story behind the data. Okay, so we created a new column called range, and we visualize it. Okay, we can also visualize the volume. So in volatile times, of course, you do more volume, but there was one day here that we need to investigate why so so many shares traded this day. Maybe it is bad data. Who knows? But visualization gives you an idea like, Okay, is it an outlier or, you know, real data? Something crazy happened that day anyway? Okay, so this is how you get hold of columns and visualize. Now, how do I drop a column? I don't want a certain column, so I can use DF dot drop, to drop a columns. For example, I want to drop the low column. Maybe I don't need it. So I can use DF dot drop, and I can also give a list like, what all columns I have to drop. So maybe I want to drop the low and I also want to drop the close. For example, you see they are dropped. There's no close, there's no low. But have we actually deleted them or not? Answer is no, because whenever we use this drop, it creates a new copy and shows that to us, right? If I actually want to delete it in DF, okay, if I check DF, it will still have it. It will it still has low and whatever, if I want to permanently delete, then I need to reassign DF to this thing, DF equal to DF dot drop. Or there is another way where we use in place equal to true. Both are equal. Okay, either you do this to. Make to replace the DF with this new, smaller data frame, or you use in place equal to true.

Unknown Speaker  2:40:15  
Okay, so this is how we can add columns, subtract columns. This that.

Speaker 1  2:40:28  
Now one of you had mentioned previously that you got some error because there are more. Oh, one more thing, this axis access equal to one means this one column axis, okay, and x is equal to zero means row access, okay. Access one means this one, yeah, horizontal, but horizontally, these are just column access, right? It represents columns. So Ah, okay. Also, Sharia says, Can you calculate average price? Yes, very simple. So there are several ways suppose you want to calculate the average price of the close column. So you can take DF close to lows you can do dot mean. So this is your average price. Okay, suppose you want to do standard deviation. So you can do STD, right? So this is your mean and standard deviation. Better still, you can use some inbuilt functions. So I can just do DF, dot describe, and it gives me statistical summary for each of the columns, right? So it gives me the mean, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, and these quantiles.

Speaker 1  2:42:10  
Okay. Now there's another very important thing, which is called DF, dot, info. So four this gives me some more information on my data frame. First of all, it tells me how many entries I have, from which date to which date, what all columns I have, how many non null values they have. What are the data types in each of the columns? And it also tells me the memory usage. So this data frame is currently occupying 86.7 kilobytes, KB. So

Unknown Speaker  2:43:06  
okay, so

Unknown Speaker  2:43:16  
that is that now we come to two very important

Speaker 1  2:43:23  
ways of getting the part of data that we want right. So one is called the dot lock. Another one is called the dot I lock, right? So what dot lock allows us to do is to get the data.

Speaker 1  2:43:55  
Oh, my thing stuck. I'm not able to click in the link. Let's see what's the issue is. I can do. I can Oh, okay,

Speaker 1  2:44:15  
I can click here, yeah, now I can click. Okay. So what dot lock allows us to do is to fetch a part of the data using the index, which is the rows or the dates over here. Okay. So for example, I only want to study the covid period, which is like these six months. So I can create a new data frame by fetching DF, dot lock and giving this slice of dates with this colon, okay. And then once I run this, I have created a new data frame which only contains this particular data. I'm calling it covid. Data. And then I can do my regular stuff. I can plot the close price. I can observe, okay, what happened to the price, and I can also plot the range, and, you know, just analyze whatever happened. So the dot lock allows us to fetch data using the labels or the dates in this case, right? And dot I lock allows us to fetch data, but not based on the dates, but on integer locations. So like row number 20 to 50 that I can fetch like this, right? And generally we prefer dot lock and dot i log, because they are very robust ways of fetching the data. Okay. Now we can fetch specific columns with specific rows. So for example, I want all the covid data. So between these dates, I'm still using dot lock, right DF, dot lock. Then I give the section of the dates comma, and after comma I can mention what all columns I want. Maybe I just want the close and the volume. So like this, I only get the close column, volume, column only for this period of dates that I wanted. Okay, I can do something similar for I lock also. But then with I lock I means integer, so I cannot give the name, then I have to give the integer. So row number 30 to 50, column number one and two. For example, why one and two? Because three is excluded. So after putting the comma, I can give the slice of columns that I want. Okay, right? So that's how we fetch the data that we like, Okay, right? There's another way, but using dot I lock and lock is the most standard way. So this is just some practice. Now you know, like, how you can fetch specific columns if, if you give them in a list, you can get them. So, yeah, all these things are pretty much covered, yeah, what happens if I do something like this? DF, new equal to zero. So in this case, I just create a column which is all zero. Yeah, because I create a new column and I default it to zero, I can also default it to some other value, like five. Then all values in this new column are five. I can also, because this is all vectorized, right, like we discussed, I can also, I can also do something like some transformation, right? I can do,

Speaker 1  2:48:20  
say, DF. I close, plus 55 for all I care, right? Doesn't matter. These are only mathematical operations, right? So, yeah, now I can perform all those things because I am using Pandas, which is working on NumPy behind the scenes, right? So I'm very comfortable with numbers, okay? And then, yeah, I can create new columns, add them to different values, I can drop the columns and so

Unknown Speaker  2:48:56  
on, okay.

Speaker 1  2:49:01  
Now a very important thing, filtering, okay. Raga of says, Can column name be changed? Yes, yes, you can change the column name. Okay, so let me first discuss this thing? Okay? How does our data frame look currently? It looks like this right now. How can I access the columns so I can do DF dot columns, and it tells me the name of all the columns. Okay, now there are several ways you can change the name of the columns, but I'll just use, like a lazy way, I can say df, dot columns equal to I'll just copy this thing. So if I do this, the column names we. Remain the same. But here, instead of new I'll write, like my column, or something like that, whatever I want to call it. Okay, now I check my DF. You see the name of the column has changed, right? You there's also a DF dot rename and other things you can do, but this is simple way. Just first check the name of the columns and you can give whatever list you want. Okay, so that's that. Now, how can I filter the data? So you know, my data looks like this, but I only want those rows where this price is less than 1200 open price is less than 1200 so how can I do that? Simply, I can have a condition like this. Okay. Now this, you see, generates a Boolean series, true, true, true, false, true, true, true. So these are all the rows where the open price is less than 1200 and once I have this, can I just give this as a filtering condition inside my DF? I can right now you check any column, any row, its open price will be less than 1200 as we wanted. Okay. Can I give multiple conditions? Of course, but then I'll have to use brackets, because otherwise it gets confusing. So I say I want all the rows where the open price is less than 1200 and let's add some other condition, like the, let's say the, let's say the range is less than 20. Okay, just for example. So now I am filtering on these two conditions, right? So now if you check any row, it will satisfy this condition, and also it will satisfy this condition. So the range is less than that, okay, and there are only 83 such rows in all of our data frame, which overall has 1200 33 rows. So this is how we can filter stuff. Now, if I have many, many conditions, then I can just write them outside, like, for example, I can call this filter one. Then I can put this here, then I can call filter two.

Speaker 2  2:53:00  
And I can put this thing here,

Speaker 1  2:53:10  
and then I can also create one more filter. Okay, so this is giving me so much flexibility to access different parts of my data set. Let's give like, Okay, so where volume? Volume is greater than some random number, I don't know, maybe 100,000 now I can just fetch filter one and filter two and

Unknown Speaker  2:53:47  
filter 3f, i, L, T, E, R,

Speaker 1  2:53:57  
okay, so Yeah, Almost like you know. So now you can define as many as you want conditions and get some data. So maybe this thing is like, almost every day it's more than that, so let's make it like more tougher. Yeah. So there's only like, so many rows now left, right. So all the volumes are also greater than this number. If I make it more, then probably it will reduce only two. There are only two days when all three conditions are satisfied, right? Volume has to be more, okay, right? So this is how we do this. So we have already seen dot lock, and we have seen dot I lock, right? So dot lock uses actual dates. Dot I lock uses the integers, right? So there are some examples here that you can try plotting. We have already seen. So if I have to plot, like two columns, I can just, yeah, basically, how you fetch your data is like this, right, open and close. All you have to do is to just put a dot plot, and instead of the table, it will give you a plot, okay? And also, we already plotted the range and stuff like that. Yeah. You can also specify the figure size and all. So, like, if you want a big figure, you can give fixed size as this. If you want a small figure, you can give smaller figure size, right? So this is that. Anyway, yeah, this brings us to the Okay. Share says in a data frame, how to limit the decimal places up to two. So for that, there's a very simple function called DF, dot round. So this is my data frame you now you see there, like too many this, digits after the decimal. I can just say df, dot round maybe two. So that will bring all the now you see there are only two decimals. It rounded them to two. Okay, sure, yes. Is that clear?

Speaker 1  2:56:26  
Yeah, okay, all right. So Yuan says, if you have time, can you tell me how to set the time zone, etc, yeah, actually, it's not for this lecture, but it's a very important skill. We'll probably discuss it in the next to next lecture, right? There are different date time libraries and so on. We don't have enough like bandwidth in this lecture for that, but yeah, it will be covered later. Okay, okay. Kushal says, how do you add or subtract rows to a data frame? Like, similar way, like how you added a column, you can create a date. Maybe I leave it as a homework for you guys, but it's very, very similar. And for deleting, you can again use the drop, but that time, this time, you have to give access zero. Okay, maybe let's try the deleting one, as that's a more difficult one. So suppose you want to delete this row. Okay, so you can do DF, dot drop. And, yeah, how do you give this date? Maybe drop this and what axis is it? It's on axis zero, right zero, because zero is the row axis. And now you see, here you had this date. Here it's gone correct. So this is how you it's very similar to how you deal with columns. That's how you deal with rows. Just that you change the access, that's all, yeah, you can use, replace, rename, like, there's like, tons of functions that come with pandas, but, yeah, okay, that brings us to some important calculations in quant trading. So let me just create a fresh copy of the data. There's no data three, so that's okay. We can just work with the DF that we have. Okay, we'll work with this right. First thing, suppose I want to find the difference. Okay, I want to now create a column which finds me the change. I'm creating a new column called change, okay,

Speaker 1  2:59:10  
and change in close price. So what I can do is that I can take the close column, and I can just use this diff. Diff is a function, okay, which gives a difference. So you see now we have a new column, which is called change in close price, and it gives us the difference between successive close prices. So 1181, minus 1175, is 5.5 and so on. So this helps us to measure the performance of our asset. Okay, day on day, what sort of return are we getting? Now this is actually in terms of the currency. So. This is just the difference between the price. But what if we want percentage change? Okay, so for that, we use PCT underscore change, okay, like diff, but I want percentage change. And instead of diff, then I will do percentage change, yeah, and you remember, we have a null value, so it will raise some warnings, but it's okay if you, if you check here, this is in terms of percentage, right? So this is 1.5% and so on. Okay, maybe you want to multiply it with 100 to make it more readable. So now you know that this is point 4% this is 1.5 and so on. Okay, shift operator. Now I want to know I want to get the previous close in the same row. Okay, so I do it, dot shift one close. Dot shift one. So what this does is that it will take this close and it will bring it here, and my column is called previous close right. Then it will take this, it will shift it down by one and so on. Because I did shift one, if I did shift minus one, then it will take it up. If I do plus one, it will take it down. So

Speaker 1  3:01:48  
okay, so if I want to now create a column called next close, okay, now we are looking into the future. We should not, but just to illustrate, I can do close dot shift minus one. And what it will do is it will fetch next day's close, right? So this is the next day's close. It will bring it one row up. Yeah, percentage change will give us simple returns, not log returns. Okay. To get log returns, you can just do NP, dot log and do dot diff. Because log return, you can just first do NP, dot log, then dot diff, right? But if the numbers are small these, these are very, very close, anyway, so this is how the shift works. Now there's another one called dot rolling, and this is for rolling window operations, right? So say if I want to create 100 period moving average, or let's first start with a five period moving average, and then,

Speaker 1  3:03:15  
okay, so I can give a window five, and I can create a new column called Five moving average. Take the close price, dot rolling, and then window it will fetch from here. So five and then dot mean and now you see there's a new column. Of course, the first four values will be then, then, then, then, then, because you need at least five values to create the first value of the moving average, right? And so on. Then you get a new column. Similarly, you can create 100 day moving average, 100 Ma, just you change the window to 100, and then you can plot the close price with the moving average. You know, there's some missing data here, whatever, but now you can see when your price was above 100 moving average when it was below, and so on and so forth.

Speaker 1  3:04:16  
Shreya says, can you create EMA crossover strategy in DF? Yes, of course, this is simple moving average. So there's another function for you stress that you need to explore today, which is called P, D, dot, E, W, M. This helps you create exponential moving averages, right? Actually, it is you have to do, instead of rolling, you have to use, okay, so.

Speaker 1  3:05:00  
And then there is Yeah. So this gives you, like, exponential moving average instead of simple moving average and so on.

Unknown Speaker  3:05:07  
Okay, all right.

Speaker 1  3:05:13  
So, yeah, I mean, these are all similar examples. This is a 200 day moving average percentage change we have covered. So, this, this, this, okay, now a very important thing, which is how to work with the how to work with missing data, which is like a very important skill for any data scientist. So suppose, if I check this, you see that there are columns which have less than 1232 actually we have 1233 rows. So each one of them has at least 1n value. Some have more, you know, but in your opinion, what is the best way of dealing with nine values? Okay, in my opinion, if you have like, if you're not very sure, then, for all the if it's like a metric, like a measure, then forward filling makes sense, because you can take values from past into the future if there's no new information available, but what you should not do is take the information from future and get it to the present, right or the past, because that is a look ahead bias case. We want to avoid it okay, because that will just inflate your back test results and stuff like that. So we avoid looking into the future at any point in time, whatever information is in a row, it should be available at that point in time. Okay, so we have to make sure so forward filling makes sense, because what forward filling does is that it uses the previous available value as the best estimate of the missing value. Okay.

Speaker 2  3:07:18  
Now I if

Speaker 1  3:07:24  
we do this, right, just giving us the info, but we what we have to do is, is null, dot, sum. So what this tells us is, in each of these columns, how many rows have missing data? Okay, so the 100 Ma has, like 199 missing data and so on. So there is this DF, dot, F fill. So F fill stands for forward filling. So what it does is take the previous value and puts it in the place of Nan. Okay, so once we do this right, and let us just replace our data frame. So Okay, now let us do this thing again. So you see like this is properly resolved. Some of this will direction will always have a null value at the top, because to get the direction, though, we need at least two days of data, but this forward filling has resolved it for a lot of these ones, and, yeah, now it looks much more better handled. Five ma should have like four Nan values at the top, which is okay, and that should have 99 which is fine, okay. So this is how we can resolve it. Now you also have the option of filling it with some default value, like zero or whatever. But why will we not do a zero fill? Because it doesn't make sense, right? Suddenly you will have a drop in your price or whatever, which is like, which will again, make your analysis faulty. Okay, so that's that. In some situations, you will say, why can't I fill it with the mean? But when you take the mean, then problem is, you are taking the mean of the whole column, which means you are looking into the future again. Okay? Carlos says, Why don't we drop the Enhance, but then you lose the data. Okay? So Sharia says, Will forward filling create duplicate data. So. Ah, it's not exactly duplicate. It is like, just like you're filling the Nan place with some estimate, which is just the previous value. That's all Snehal says. Can you repeat which part?

Speaker 1  3:10:23  
Shares how to fetch the missing data. We just saw like, how we can do df.is, null, dot sum, okay, and we can see like, Okay, how many values are missing and whatnot, right.

Speaker 1  3:10:42  
Forward, feeling to deal with none values, okay, suppose you have this data, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, price of the stock was five. This value is missing, and this was 5.5 so ah, and probably previous week, Friday, also you can take it was like 4.5 Okay. Question is, what do you want to fill here? This is a null value. What do you want to fill it with? Can I fill it with 5.5 No, because this is in future, so back filling is gone. Can I fill it with zero? But then your stock price will look like 4.55 suddenly zero, then 5.5 when you calculate returns, this will be like, Wow, so much money you have made, but actually you haven't made anything. You just fill this with zero. So this is also wrong. Can you fill it with the average value? Yeah. But what if this was like some low value, like two, then your average will be 3.5 which is again, faulty, right? Because it's not representing like from five to 5.5 certainly. How come it dropped to 3.5 so the best thing is you just forward, fill it. Say, I have no new information. Last I know was five, so I keep it as five. Ajay says, How about filling filling it with rolling? Mean, yeah, that's a better solution, right? But it will also carry some old information with it, because when you do rolling depends on your rolling window, whereas what forward filling does is just considers the last available value is the closest. Okay, all right, yeah, so that is how you deal with then values.

Speaker 1  3:12:57  
Okay, so this last, thing that we are going to study is, study is the apply method. So sometimes, till now, what we have seen is like the built in methods, right? Like, say, I have volume, I can do, dot sum on it, and it gives me total volume traded. Okay? But sometimes I want to apply my custom functions to the different columns. How do I do that, using the apply method, okay, so what I can do is that I can prepare a function, okay? And the input to this function is, say, a row, and then in that row I can access the volume, right? So, for example, this is a row, row number 39 it has a volume field from which I can fetch this value. If this value is greater than whatever threshold, then I can classify that day as a high volume day. Else, I can classify it as a low volume day. This is what this function does for me. So once I create this function, I can use DF, dot apply, and just write the name of the function. And because rows are arranged horizontally right along the column axis, so I give x is equal to one. And when I run this, I have a brilliant new column here which tells me whether that day was a high volume day or a low volume day. Okay, so what I have essentially done is that I have created a. A user defined function, and I applied it to a particular column, right, which is the volume to create a new column. I'm calling it volume regime, high volume day, low volume day. Yeah, so atherva, yes. Functions are defined before and use as per convenience, correct, okay.

Speaker 1  3:15:34  
Sharia says, Could you write it as two times of average volume? Yeah, of course we can do that. We can probably, oh, no, but problem here is that then we have to pre compute it by looking into the whatever future, right? Because here it only has access to one rows of data. It doesn't have access to all the column data. I mean, you could technically compute that number outside and then feed it here. Okay, so that is one thing with the apply, because you are going row by row by row, unless that information is available in the row, you can't use it again. Says, Why have you used x is equal to one, because it's along this axis, right? So again, if you are confused, you can read the documentation.

Speaker 1  3:16:37  
Okay. What does the documentation say

Speaker 1  3:16:50  
axis along which the function is applied. So when you go row by row, you are going along the column axis. Okay, that's why, in this case, x is equal to one, because when you're going row by row, basically you are going along the column axis. Okay, cool. So a Kushal says, Why can't you fill average of previous and next day? Because you typically don't want to use information from future, right? The 2x of every volume already answered rolling mean, I told you, you can use it. It's a better solution still, compared to looking into the future or anything. But it contains older information, right? Because depends on the rolling window. If you're taking average of previous three four days, that's fine. If you're taking average of previous 100 days, then it's problematic, because the price has kind of moved right, and your average will be, like, very far away from where it closed previously. Okay, all right, cool. So similar analysis you can also do with, say, instead of applying this whole function, I could just apply this lambda function. Okay, so lambda x, hv day means high volume day, if volume greater than whatever number else, LV day means low volume day. Now here I created my own function and then use DF, dot apply whatever function. Suppose I don't want to save any function to memory. Right lambda function, use and throw. Just use it here. It's not saved anywhere to memory, and it does the same job. So if you go here and you see, this is the same information from lambda, but it's coming from the lambda function. So high volume day, hv day, low volume day, LV day, right? So this is a use case. So all of you who are like, Okay, how do we use lambda function? This that this is how. Okay, this is not saved to memory, so it was used and, yeah, it just goes away. Okay? Another way is using NP, dot where. So you can mark the days DF, volume greater than this number, mark it as HB, otherwise, mark it as LV. Again. Same in, same thing done in third way. So you say you see high volume day HV, low volume day, LV, and so on, right? So there are, like, multiple ways in which, once you become start practicing, you become an expert in all these things, right? Okay. Final thing, once you have done a. All your analysis, you can save it back, right? And so once I have the data frame, I'm saving this data frame back as I can save it back as a CSV, Excel, HTML, JSON, whatever pickle file you choose, okay, maybe you want to save it as XLSX file on sheet number 26 so all those things are available. You just have to press df.to press the Tab key. You will see all the options here, okay, and yeah, and then you can save your data back. And, yeah, that's it basically save back your analysis. Okay, so, yeah, this is pretty much the end of the lecture. It's a very big library, pandas. Of course, we covered as much as it's important for us and whatever we were able to. But this is a little homework. They're like different wonderful functions there, like site, index, concat, group by correlation. This is very handy, okay, this gives you the correlation between different columns, and we have dot query for those of you coming from SQL, this is very useful, okay? And yeah, so please go through these in your free time and come up with your questions. And whatever you know practice you are able to do, it's only going to make you better. So with this, we end today's lecture you can drop off now. I'll come back in two minutes to answer any remaining question, if you have any, if you don't have any questions, then thank you very much for attending. Enjoy the rest of your weekend. All right, goodbye for the if you have any questions, then just replace them and We'll deal with them in Two minutes. Okay? Thanks. Bye.

Unknown Speaker  3:23:12  
More Okay, so we are back. Let's see if there's any question.

Speaker 1  3:24:00  
Okay, so shares says how to write SMA, five of volume. So very simple. First you have to create the column, right? So let's see how our data frame looks currently. Yeah, we don't have a so we can create a column called volume five, Ma, and we can just take DF, volume

Speaker 1  3:24:43  
dot rolling. Maybe give the window five. Just take the mean. Okay, and then now you have the role this column available. Right, volume five, Ma, right. This is the five day moving average of the volume. And now you can utilize in the in your function here, so like whatever condition you want to write, if row volume

Unknown Speaker  3:25:16  
is okay, what is the column? Called column is now called Five Ma, correct so we can say two times.

Speaker 1  3:25:41  
Okay, two times this value, then we classify it as a high volume day. Else we classify it as a low volume day, right? And then we can apply this thing to the volume regime, okay? And now this one is based on your logic. Whatever volume regime we have, low volume day, low volume day. Most of them will be low volume day now, because this number will be like, really big. Okay, so yeah, that's how you can do them. Second question of Shreya says how to rename it to Excel SX file. So Excel SX IS, we are already putting dot Excel SX here, right? And whenever we use to excel, first of all, it's trying to save it as an Excel file. Now, Excel file can have different extensions, right? So you can have Excel as M, you can have Excel s if you say XL SX, it saves it as this, in this format, xlsx. Okay, so, yeah, it will be saved by this name only. So it will be an XLSX file. Okay. Another question is by Mani Kannan says signals is NP, dot where volume traded is greater than some number short zero. Okay, so.

Speaker 1  3:27:25  
Okay, so he has some questions. I'm not sure where you are getting that code from, but yeah, we can do a bit of trial and error. Okay,

Unknown Speaker  3:27:40  
so yeah, this is the code, right? So, first of all, in this code, what is the problem?

Speaker 1  3:27:53  
The problem is that volume traded. What variable is this? Where is this coming from.

Speaker 1  3:28:08  
This is not defined, right for our case, this is not defined. So let us assume that volume traded is our DF, volume column. Okay? Now you are giving it some condition and signals again, will be some Python series now panda series, right? It will not be part of the data frame, but yeah, supposing that you generate this, probably this will give error anyway, because you are doing signals here, and then,

Unknown Speaker  3:28:46  
okay, I think it's overwriting. So, yeah, this will be like a find us.

Speaker 1  3:28:56  
Oh yeah, because our numbers are really huge. These are, like, only 325, so all the all of them are short. Let make them 320, 5000 or whatever. Yeah, so this is a Boolean, right? It will have short, short, short, long, short, short, something like that. Now, if you do NP, dot unique of signals and return counts equal to true, you will get two things. One is this array which tells us what are the unique values. So that's only long and short, right? So this part is assigned to unique values, then comma, then it has got count values, right? So count values is counting the values and assigning it to this count values part right, and then you are taking the transpose of that. So it will be like, you know, how you take the transport transpose of from so this part is giving error. Why? Okay, okay, because we haven't assigned yet, so let's assign them.

Speaker 1  3:30:11  
Yeah, so it looks like this, right? So without it, it will look flatter, and with that, it will stack it basically. So long, short is one, row, two, 2/3, 1231, is another. And then when you take the transport, like if you take the transpose of a matrix, the rows become columns, columns become rows. Okay, so that's what happens, all right, so this is it cool? Yeah. All right, as there is no other question, we will end the session here. Thank you very much for attending. Take care. If you have any other queries, do shoot us an email. We'd be happy to help. All right, take care and goodbye. Thank you for attending bye.

