Speaker 1  0:02  
Hey. Hello, everyone. This is Dr Hui Liu from San Jose, California. Can you hear me now? If you can, please put something into the questions panel so that I can, either can see you. Okay, great, Brahma, Brahma, how about others? About others? Please, please put something in the questions panel. Thank you. Arthur, money condom, thank you. Thank you. Okay, so let me start my slide. Okay, so let me start officially. So this is Dr huylio from San Jose, California, United States. My local time is 8:01pm, two. And there will be two sessions. The topic will be algorithmic trading and the back test using Python, so you can hear my accent. I'm not a native English speaker, and have very strong ascent. I'm sorry about that. So I will try to speak slowly and clear so that you can understand what I mean. And also, sometime I will read out your name, but if I mispronounce your name. I'm sorry about that. I really love to hear your voice, but I cannot at this moment, so bear with me about that, and that's something I want to mention, and also one thing I want to mention that I'm in California, San Jose, California, United States. If you happen to visit this city, you can drop me a email. I would love to meet you in person. In the past month, I have, I have met two of ePad students in my local city. We really enjoyed the talking a lot of things. So in case you have chance to visit the city, let me know. I would love to meet you in person, if possible. Okay? And also, this is my LinkedIn profile from my previous sessions. I know a lot of you are interested in to get connected with me on LinkedIn. So this is my LinkedIn let me find out. How can I send a message to the whole group? We just recently changed to zoom, so not very familiar with that. Let me try it. Paste it in chat. Okay, let me try that. Let me try to this. No, hold on. A little bit. Let me try. Is host panelist, can you see? Can you see it? I'm trying to find out a way to let everyone see that. Can you see it in the chat or not? Not yet. Hold on. Let me try to try answer. Let me try there. Okay. Can you see that right now? I cannot see it. Oh, you can. Okay, great. I don't know how it happened, but Okay, great. Thank you so much. Thank you so much. It seems like the webinar chat doesn't work well, so I need to click something. Okay, that's great. Let me continue. Thank you so much for your help. So you need to use a Q A panel. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, and then actually, if you want to get me connected, my email is ibridge pi@gmail.com you can go there. And also the website of average pi is average pi.com you can, you can download average pay there. Okay, let's continue so the learning goals. There will be two sessions. Today's session. And next session, very likely, in January. So these are the goals for these two sessions. First is to understand the steps to build algorithmic trading strategies. You can say it just how to build trading robots. The second is after after you build your trading robots, or you call it a trading strategies,

Speaker 1  5:38  
so you need to know what can happen during live trading and how to handle the issues, because we don't build trading robots for fun. We want to use trading robots to make money and let it run in live market. That is our goal, so that a lot of things will happen. You need to be prepared for those issues. You are not expected to solve all of the issues, but I hope you can be prepared for the potential muted. I'm not muted, actually, to be I'm not muted. Can you hear me? Can you hear me? No, I can Okay, it's been it's on your side. Others can hear me. Others can hear me. Okay, good, good, okay. The last goal is to get familiar with techniques, to back test strategies, because that is really important before anything go to live or even just on paper. Account is also very important. Okay, that is really learning goals, the contents that are specific contents for two sessions. So first I will, oh, I forgot about a little bit introduction about myself. Sorry about that. Okay, so I got my bachelor degree and master degree from Tsinghua University from China. I got my PhD degree from University of Virginia in United States, and I have my MBA degree from Indiana University, from Indiana University in United States. And also I am holding a Six Sigma black belt from American quality society, and currently I have my own private fund. So I'm running some business to help my clients to manage their portfolios. And also I created ibridge high many, many years ago, and I am one of the founding lecturers in ePad program. So I have taught this session 80 years already. So, so many, many years already in this ePad so, so that's a little bit about my background. So this is the content, actually, for these two sessions. The first one is, I want to give a brief introduction about how to set up a private phone, because, based on my previous experience, I know many, many of ePAT students have a personal goal to set up their own fund, or you call it a trading desk, or whatever, just manage portfolios, something like that. They are interested in how to become a fund manager. So I will share a little bit the next one, we will talk about Python choices to build trading robots, because there are so many Python choices. Just I want to give you a comparison, so that you know the pros and the cons, and then you will choose the solution best fit you, not necessarily to use average pay at all. Actually, the next one is introduction about how to find strategies using machine learning technique. In today's session, I will give you a very simple example about using machine learning packages and how to explore trading strategies. In the next session, we will talk about back testing skills and also, I assume everybody is familiar with the very famous Moving Average. Crossover strategy. So I want to, I expect everyone finished the prerequisite about this course, so know how to use average pie to build trading robot, about moving average strategy. And then I want to make some improvements to that strategy, so that you know how to build a real trading robot, because trading strategy itself is just one part of the trading robot, and there are something else you need to handle. And in your course package, there is a paper, maybe a few papers about trading strategies, and there is, I also provide samples trading Python code, so that you will have a feeling about how to transform academic paper to algorithm Trading Strategy Python, we won't have it. We won't have discussions about that in class, because it's just too much information. I hope you can study it when you have time. And also, I know a lot of ePAT students are interested in options trading, so I will talk a little bit about option trading, then a big topic is how to back test. You need to be familiar with different back test strategy, the back testing skills technologies, so that you can tune the back tester to fit your need. Okay, that is the content for two sessions. And also, the advantage of two sessions is, if there's something some topics you want me to cover, or you're interested, you can send me an email or get connected with me on LinkedIn and let me know you are interested in those topics,

Speaker 1  12:06  
if we have time, and if they are related to algorithm trading, then we might talk about that in The next session. Okay, that is the plan. Okay, so? And also, for today, I want to spend a little bit time to give everyone a chance to talk a little bit about you. For example, I want to know maybe, where are you actually and also, I want to know your expectations about its two sessions, because in the in your EPACT journey, there are so many topics. And this is the session about algorithm, trading, build trading, robot in Python. I want to know in your mind, what do you expect from these two sessions? Please just say something in the questions panel, and I'm not sure about other sessions. In my session, I hope it is a highly interactive participation, which means your your your responses are really appreciated and welcome whatever. I just try to encourage everyone is not just passively listening to me, because it will be really boring. Okay, it will be really boring. I want to you. I will give you a lot of chance to participate in the discussion. That is I want everybody to do. So let's break the ice by put something about in the questions. Panel is something like, where are you? What do we want to learn, or something like that. I will read it out, including your first name, if I can pronounce it correctly, hopefully. Okay, so from Zubin, practical implementation of average, oh, actually, the average pi is prerequisites for these two sessions. So I won't talk about too much implementation details about average pi, because there are so many tutorials on YouTube for specific functions features, I highly encourage everybody to go to those tutorials instead of talking about that in the lecture, in the in my sessions. Okay, okay. And Karthik, from Chennai, Indian, I would like to learn how to identify. High and implement and live trade profitable, low stress strategies. Okay, so it's hard to say, you know, profitable, how good is that? Because for for my session, I focused more on the the trading part, instead of the logic or analysis. But if you follow me, you will find out that implementation and model tuning live trading are actually, is just two sides of one coin, actually. So it's very important, okay, from Earth the Arthur bar mark, market making, event based prediction using algorithmic strategies. We won't talk about market making, because that is the professional job for many big institutions. Actually, if you are talking about some specific strategies, then it's a different thing, actually, event based prediction that is not something we won't talk about because it's this topic is too broad, and it needs too much machine learning skills, and you need to have reliable data source. That's something we won't talk about, but we will talk about the event based back testing. Okay, that's a little bit different topic. Just sounds similar, similar, actually, to somebody, okay, we will talk about that later, from many card, many candidate to understand the practical aspect of automation or back testing using machine learning. Yes, that's something we will talk about. Shuba, I'm from India. Zubin, mentioned from kirala, Indian full time trader and registered Research Analyst from Amit, I'm a professional Python developer and working as software developer and architect, doing manual trading over five plus a year now, looking forward a systematic learning about how to build strategy, backtest and automate using Python. Amid from Bangalore. Bank, Bangalore. Okay, great, great, maybe it will be a simple sessions for you. Amit from Bahama. I'm from Massachusetts. Okay, okay, I'm looking to move into trading, and hoping to see real life example of usage of strategies on Interactive Brokers platform. Great. That is the good session for you. That will be a good session for you. Actually from vara, good morning faculty. I'm from hydro, hydro bad Indian, Rahul Kumar, I'm looking for some practical strategies which are actually profitable in options trading. I'm in Bangalore. Bangalore. Indian, it's hard to see profitable, actually, okay, to me, actually, a little bit personal reflection is the most important thing for algorithm trading is not. It's not for more profit. Actually, I won't say, is something could guarantee you a more profit. But the most important thing about algorithm trading is to help you calm down, emotionless and little bit less. Actually, I would say you will make less errors, human errors by changing from manual trading to algorithm trading, because after you finish your coding, then, of course, coding may have some errors. May have some logic error, but you can depend on back testing to make it correct. And when you switch to algorithm trading, the most important thing is you don't need to face, let's say, eight screens in front. Of you every day, I know many professional traders facing six, 810, screens, from 930, Eastern Time to 4pm Eastern time. It's a really high stress job that is something personally I don't want to be that is why, many years ago, I switched to algorithm trading. And for me, I don't check price very often a day. And also I don't check the output of my trading robots very often. No, typically I don't. I? So I trust what I wrote, I trust what I deployed. I trust what my bidding robot will do for me so that I have I have more time to do whatever I want to do instead of too much attention to algorithm trading itself. Personally, I like coding, but I love to do more research on finding best strategy. I think I should spend more time on exploring strategies, make some research instead of coding itself, coding itself is a professional job, and we should let professional to do the professional job. If you love trading, then spend more time on the research and look for some professional trader for you, look for some some professional developer for you to build a trading robot. I think that is very important. Okay, from

Speaker 1  21:55  
rug Haven drug. I currently work at an investment bank in Singapore, building fixed income e trading system for market making cross race and credit asset classes, serving a global client base. I'm keen to deepen my expertise in implementing machine learning based algorithm make trading strategies for futures with the long term goal of becoming a top tier CTA. Wow, that's really great introduction. Thank you so much. I really recommend EPA students can have more chance to talk to talk to each other, because I know a lot of you have may have have made significant achievements in your experience, in your job, and I really encourage you can share with each other and help each other, actually, from vara. With vara, I'm following dictionary trading strategy options, but not get any ash, so want to implement systematic strategies. Okay, one thing you need to remember that algorithm trading in including two parts. One is doing the research using machine learning or any other tools, including coding a little bit, and the other part is to build trading robots. For my session, I will give you an example about machine learning, and then we'll talk about the implementation. I think that is delta plan. Sir, yeah. Kath sir yakath from Bangalore, Bangalore, working as machine learning analyst currently into manual trading, trying to shift into Argo trading. That's great from Vera. I want to set up a quant fund with some quant trading strategies. What kind of support will I get from this course? Actually, just follow the discussion and see what you can learn. And if there anything you want get more deep, you can send me a message. We can talk about it privately, actually, and maybe courses is one way, or some learning, or read some books another way, and also get familiar with the advanced academic study is another way. Because, you know, trading is really big topic, and everybody have the. Your personal preference, so it's hard to say specific path for you actually, okay. She asked, How would read AI bot versus hiring a coder? That's really good question. Let me repeat your question. How would read AI bot versus hiring a coder. Okay, that's really good, actually. So personally, I have used different AI models to write so many code, actually, different code. So my recommendation is, don't trust AI bot too much. You need to be more knowledgeable, not necessarily then AI, because there's no human can beat AI by memorizing things and even some some analytic skills humans are, I feel is far behind AI in many areas. However, one thing you need to be good is to understand the output from Ai bot. If you are able to tell what AI you want, and also you can check if AI did a good job, then probably you just use AI bot instead of hiring a coder. On the other side, if you are experienced the trader, and there is limited knowledge about programming, probably you need to hire a coder, because it's much easier to talk to people to understand a lot of things, and will be better than hiring AI bot to use AI bot. If you tell AI bot do something, he may not do exactly what you want. If you don't know what the AI gave you, then that will you will get into trouble sometime soon or later. Okay, that's my comment. The next one is from senior Senator Hall. Hi, my said Senate Hall. I'm a student pursuing my engineering in AI and data science, and I'm new to this field of quant analysis and looking forward to learn all new stuff about trading and quote, okay, great. Thank you so much. I really appreciate everybody's response. Thank you so much. And okay, let's go back to our presentation. So let me talk about little bit about start a headphone a lot of at least a lot of previous EPA sessions are very interested in this topic, actually. So the first thing you need to have is to do a lot of research to find good strategies. That is the starting point. I'm pretty sure you are interested in doing that. Otherwise you won't join this ePad journey. It's a long journey, and needs a lot of effort, actually. So I'm pretty sure you're interested in that. And then you need to think about one thing is, what's your style? I know a lot of good traders. They say, I don't trust quantitative. Maybe they don't have enough knowledge to handle statistics to handle coding, but they are really good traders. They said, I read the news and use Excel to do my analysis. And the other side is they say, I don't read any news. I just trust quantitative analysis. I build machine learning model, I build AI model, a lot of model, and I trust models. So either way, fundamental analysis or quantitative analysis, either way is good. Let me do a quick survey. Do you believe in more quantitative analysis or fundamental analysis? Your personal preference? You can see f for fundamental analysis or Q for quantitative analysis, what's your preference?

Speaker 1  29:53  
Okay, great. Thank you so much. Ah, Graham said, Q. You. Zubin said, technical analysis mendicant queue during both maneuver both f and Q. Surya said, Syria the currently fundamental Brahma fan, fundamental due to ongoing global macro economics factors, really good comments. Brahma, really good comments. Let me read it out loud. Fundamental due to ongoing global macroeconomic factors, that's really good comments. Viral. Said using quant more focused on risk metrics, but fundamental is more useful for investing. See, I told you, somebody believe in fundamental analysis. Some of you believe in quantitative analysis. My personal experience is a mix of fundamental analysis with quantitative analysis will probably give you a little bit better result. For example, interest rate from from fed us, federal, Federal Reserve, if they change the interest rate, the base rate, then a lot of things will change, and it will have a big impact on the overall economy and the market in different areas, Different countries. So that is definitely something you need to consider, okay, okay, okay, good, good, good. So next is after you have your strategies and you are satisfied with your strategies. If you don't want to trade manually, you need to translate your strategy into Python calls. But if you feel that manual trading is fine and you enjoy manual trading, then that's okay. But my personal recommendation is, even if you enjoy manual trading, I still highly recommend learn a little bit of coding and use a little bit coding tools to help you to remove the manual step a little bit, and then you can enjoy more time actually. So use a little bit coding, it will make things much easier. Sometime, actually, okay is, but sometimes it's just a personal preference, okay, next one, if you're you want to do algorithm Trading or have a little bit from a little bit of help from your Python code or Python tooling, or any other tool coding, then you need to set up a server to run your Python code. You can do it on your local local computer, or you can deploy a computer in cloud. We will talk about it in the next session. We talk about the differences actually, what considerations you need to have. Okay, the next one is you need to summarize your trading results, not every day, but must be pretty frequent, actually. And then, based on those results, you need to improve the performances. So you keep doing the research. Go back to step one and then improve. Do something, summarize results, improve research improve. That is the cycle until you can show track the records to investors or institutions. It depends on what you want to do. Then you can consider to set up investment accounts to manage portfolios if you have customer somebody trusts you. So you can consider, actually, there are two type of accounts. One is advisory, advisor account, the other one, I call it pulled account, actually. So are you familiar with these two types advisor, account and code? Account, anything you can say why you can see yes or say no or say n, something like that, just quick survey. Actually, I want you just do something instead of just listening to me, arguments and No, no, not in details. No, oh no. Not a Not, not any, no. Okay, everybody said no. Okay, then let me talk about it. Talk about that a little bit. So the major difference between the weather account and put account is like this for advisor account, which means that the owner of the account is still the customer you as a portfolio manager, you cannot withdraw their money, you cannot deposit money, you cannot move around. The only permission you have is to trade for your customer that is called advisor account. And Interactive Brokers are pretty good at setting up advisor accounts for you, and interactive broker will set it up and will set up the contract, legal contract for you with your customer, so that you will have an advisor account, and your advisor account will be linked to a customer's account, so that you can trade in your advisor account, and then it will be linked to your client's account, so that You can manage your client's account that is called advisor account. The other way is code account. It's like a mutual fund, actually, something like that, which means you or your company is the owner of the account. You have the full authority of that account, and your customer send their money into transfer your their money into this shared account, and you can do whatever you you want, not necessarily, actually, because you need to follow some regulations. You cannot do whatever you want, but you can do a lot of things, other than trading, that is put account, but you need to disclose to your customer and have their permission somewhere, actually, okay, that is the little bit. Hold on, a little bit I'm worried about my computer. All of power is just now charging quickly, okay. Anyway, has looks okay. Okay. So somebody asked, Which one is better? There's no better or no good or wrong. Actually, it depends on which stage you are in. Actually, at the beginning of your life, your of your portfolio management life, very likely you will set up advisor account because it you need to build your trust with your customer, and advisor account is a better way to build that kind of trust. And after you become senior in the in your career, about managing others account, then you may consider in food account, if your customer accept this solution, because trading may not be the only way to help your customer to grow their their wealth. Maybe there's something else actually, then that's another topic. Okay? Then the last step is to manage client portfolio. But remember, there are a lot of regulations you need to consider. You need to consult your local authority to find it out. Okay, that is the

Speaker 1  38:47  
next one is the major components of algorithm trading desk. The first is also, you need to have a successful strategies. There's no doubt about it. The next one is, if you like to algorithm trading, then Python codes translated from strategies, that is something you need to do. And we will talk about that you need a computer, either a local one or cloud. We will talk about in the next session. Next one is, you need to have a Python platform, or call IT environment to back test and live trade together. One recommendation is highly recommend you find any platform they can do both of back test and live trading that is critical. And also the best thing is you don't need to change anything about your trading robots so that you can run back test and live trim in one system. Don't change, try not change anything, because it may introduce human errors somewhere, either there or somewhere, okay. And also, you need to make sure to run backward testing. Okay and forward testing. Make sure you need to do that, then you need the internet brokers come brokers, accounts and customers that are the major components. Is, are you familiar with backward testing and forward testing? Yes or no.

Speaker 1  40:24  
Anybody? Yes, okay, how about others? Ah, okay, good, okay, I hope Okay. Most of you said yes, okay, don't feel embarrassed to say no, because if I see a lot of interest in that, then I will talk about a little bit more if, if everybody said yes, then we won't waste our time on that. Okay, so there's some question is first, let me clarify what is backward. What is forward? Backward testing means use historical data to run your trading robot and see the result. It just like doing research, but we call it backward testing. Forward testing means, after you build your trading robot, you use a paper account and then run your paper account to see how the goals tomorrow, the next week, the next month, something like that. Just assume this is a real account and try it. And maybe you can try some real account, but with a little bit money in it and run it. Remember one thing critical is the performance of paper account is not exactly same as the Live account. Remember that even if you run you got a perfect result in paper account, be sure to run live account before you're going to spend too large money on it. Okay? That is backward testing and forward testing. The key point is historical data. Remember that backward testing is use historical data, and the forward testing is use filter, filter data you don't have it, you have to run it in market. Then the question from shiya is, how to do simultaneous backward and forward testing. The procedure it should be like that is you build a trading robot, first based on your research, and then use historical data to run back test, if you feel comfortable, and then start a forward testing so that you cannot run it simultaneously. I don't mean that, but I would, but definitely you will, after you have something in forward testing, then you made me, you may be doing some more research and build another trading robot and doing back testing. So that is back testing, and with forward testing, you may do it simultaneously and maybe not on the same trading robot. Okay, more questions you okay, if no more questions, let's move on. Okay, why we're talking about Python. Very brief introduction. Python is very easy to learn compared to Java, C Plus Plus or some other general, general purpose programming languages, Python is the easiest one, and also most of 99% of machine learning packages or AI packages have a Python interface. So it's very easy to use and availability of different packages, and also a lot of them are open source, so that if you're really, really, really interested in what you what's behind it, what be below the hood, you can open it up and take a look. But I don't recommend to do that, not worth your time. Okay, then if you put okay, what are the Python choices for algorithm trading in AI or Google or Gemini or whatever you want, you will find there are so many things we can trust the AI too much. So we need to be prepared to know, to understand, what are the answers from Ai? Actually, you won't see this table anywhere, because I came up off this part, so you won't see the AI, at least right now. Okay, so there are five categories. That's my category. Okay. Is to help you understand different Python choices, and you can choose whatever you. On to feed your need. Okay, the first one is called web based trading platform. One example is a back trader. The feature is like that you don't have anything installed in your local computer. You just open web browser, go to website, some somewhere, and then they will ask you to create account, and then you will start coding in their web browser. In the web browser, typically, one side is Python Editor, the other side is the simulation result. Typically, you can build a trading robot very quick following their API doc and click back test to run, see the result very quickly. Okay, the advantages is typically those websites provide huge data, and you don't need to install anything, and you can back test immediately, and they will have a really good analysis about back testing results, analysis actually, so you will see the result very quick. Okay, the problem, the problem of those solution is there's no privacy. I want to end I want to tell you what is what does it mean by no privacy? Actually, maybe 10 years ago when I get into the algorithm trading. Actually, I started from Mt four and trade. I was trading Forex, and it's just like C Plus Plus language. It's not that fun to build trading robots, so I switched to Python at that time, the leading web based trading platform is called Quantum. I build my trading robots and I back tested it. I want to do the live trading. Then the problem comes. I need to give my trading username and the password to contopian to enable the live trading. That is something I said, No, no, any serious trader won't do that. I don't trust the third party company to do that. And also, if it's Python, then it means they know exactly everything. They know how you type and what you type and every version, and they can run back test of your strategy and find out what you are doing and understand your performance. It's no privacy. Everything is transparent to them. So that is reason I created average time management. Many, many years ago, because of I want to join the good feature provided by the web based trading platform. But I'm a serious trader. I don't feel comfortable to give my password to any anyone else. Okay. And also coding limitations, which means if you want to do some special package, machine learning package, they may not have it at all, and you cannot install them at all. And limited trading products, you may trade options, they may not have it at all. So that is web based trading platform. The second one is low level Python wrappers, let's say ibpy, or IB in sync,

Speaker 1  48:24  
you will find out is everywhere. A lot about a lot of people talking about that you can build trading robot, live trading robot quickly, and they provide basic functions. The problem is, you must be a professional trader to do that is so hard to learn, actually. And also, there's no back testing. You cannot back test at all. There's no support. You just have to ask question in their forum and waiting for somebody to help you. If you are a professional developer, go for it, no problem. But if you are trader, don't do that. Your Your time is so valuable. Don't waste of your time to learn those packages. Next one is back testing engines zplan. Zipline was originally developed by Quantopian, and then Quantopian quit and the zipline become open sourced and maintained by public it's designed to be a back testing engine for contopium, so great community, good back testing features. The problem is, zipline is not designed for live trading at all from the beginning, and it also only support limited trading products. It's not for something for trading at all, actually, it's for our research. The next level is brokers, native API. If you go to Interactive Brokers or some other brokers, they may say, I have API. You can build your trading robots using those API. Yes, you can live trade no problem using their API. And also you have some supports from those brokers because it's their API. But the problem is still same. It's very hard to build real trading robots based on those low level API provided by broker. Second there's no back testing because they don't care back testing. They just want to trade so they can earn money from you. Okay, long time to code, definitely. Okay. Don't be fooled by their easy to use the API. No, it's not easy to use. Okay, the last category is called a self hosted solution. Average pay is that the top reason is privacy. I will talk about it more a little bit later. And average pay is designed to be easy to use, and it can live, trade and backtest in one platform, no code change one platform, everything. Even if I created average pay, I still say there's some problem with average pay. First is average pay is just a software. It does not have any historical data, so you need to have a data provider to supply data to average pay to back test average pay can get data from Interactive Brokers, very easy. I will show you how to do that later. The next one is you need to install something in your local computer to set up something. It's like a real algorithm trading fund, you need to do something, physically, do something, to set up something, instead of go to web browser and get everything done. It won't happen that, but you enjoying the privacy a lot of things. One question from Aditya, what are the options for trading on platforms like zero daha or fires in India? There's no, I don't know good options at this moment, but my recommendation is try Interactive Brokers. It's very, very good actually, and the cost is really low in for Indian market? Yes, they support Indian markets. So be open to other choices. I know a lot of you have worked with brokers for a long time and are familiar with their features, but open to something else, actually, that's my recommendation. And Interactive Brokers, price is pretty competitive, actually, okay, okay, let me talk about a little bit about average. One question for you, average pay is listed as a prerequisite for these two sessions. Have you finished that prerequisite? You can see yes or no. Don't feel embarrassed to say no. I know 99% of you or 90% of you have not. So what's your answer to me? Have you finished yes or no? Yeah. Don't feel embarrassed. I know 90% of you don't. I just want to quickly check, yes, your path is 100% said no, not a single one. Thank you. Thank you. Everybody. Don't feel embarrassed to say no, I know the answer already. Okay, that's okay. But my recommendation, my recommendation, the prerequisites, they take three hours, but actually no, you can finish it pretty quick. That's one thing. The second is, even if you are not interested in apple at all, it won't hurt to learn it, because first, for this session, you don't need to know anything about average pie. You will be feel very comfortable for today's session, but for next session, it will be hard for you if you know nothing about every time. Okay, second, every try itself is just software, and there are so many other options you can use if you are not interested in average pie. I totally fine, but for my session, I have to choose something to teach you, the algorithm trading and any other trading tools, any other trading tools, IB, pi, IB, insync. Those are designed pretty similar. If you know one of them, it's very, very easy to switch to others, and the average pack give you a lot of basic idea about how to build trading robots. So you spend a little bit time on it. You will gain a lot, and it's very easy to switch to other platform. So that's my recommendation. Highly recommend everybody take a little bit time to go through that video, that training, and I'm pretty sure it worth your time, okay, especially if you want to learn something from my session, then especially the next session, you need to know a little bit about it. Just a little bit is enough. Okay, so for average pi, the top reason is private, privacy, and the main features it can trade any securities or commodities offered by IB, and you can manage multiple accounts at same time. You can run, you can execute multiple trading strategy at same time. That is the critical part is, the most important thing, I would say, is manage multiple accounts at same time, because after you become found manager, very, very, very likely you will have a lot of accounts to manage, then you need to have something to help you. It's a must. Actually, if you don't, you will suffer somewhere. Okay, so that is something you need to keep it in mind, okay, so those things you could all that okay? Why average pie provides protects privacy. This is something I want to explain to you too, so that you can feel comfortable to use average and also that is something you need to use to evaluate other options, because you need to ask other options are how to provide protect my privacy. I don't feel comfortable to give you my trading password. That is the key point. Actually, okay. So assuming this is your computer, either your local computer or cloud computer, doesn't matter, okay? And this is IB server, broker server. The communication between your computer and IB server is from Interactive Brokers. Official software is called IBT Ws, or IB gateway, you need to install either of them to get connected to IBS server. The communication between your computer and IB server is guaranteed by IBS technology, so no any concern about this part. Then when you put into your trading ID or password, you give it to IB gateway or IB TWS average has no any information about that at all, no zero,

Speaker 1  57:58  
and every pair is just a software lived in lives in your computer is just a bunch of Python code, and your strategies are just files in Python and stays in a folder within average path. So everything is in your control, 100% under your control, so there's no concern about that. And also, if you want to install any packages, custom packages, or machine learning packages, AI packages, feel free to install that to your computer. As long as it's your computer. You can do if you have the graph permission of that computer, you can do anything you want. So you may, you may add more memory, format, more storage or good internet. It's up to you. You can do whatever you want. Okay, just a little bit introduction about average pack. There are two basic function. One is called initialize, the other one is called handle data. Initialize is a function will be executed once, and it's used to set up something in the handle data is the function runs every second, which means whatever logic you want to use, you can put it into handle data put into this function. This function will be triggered every second, and the market data and your account will be provided to this function. And then you just manipulate them. In this function, there are three Cornerstone functions, get real time price get historical data and place orders. The reason I call them cornerstones is because with these three functions, you can build very complex trading robots already, so that's why I call them cornerstone. Process in your prerequisite. If you don't have time, you just just understand how those file function work, then that's good enough. Okay, we're pretty good on time. So let's have my local time is 9:01pm, let's have seven minute break. I will mute myself and stop the video. You

Unknown Speaker  1:01:37  
okay, okay, great. Thank you. Thank you.

Speaker 1  1:01:47  
Hello, can you hear me? Hello, can you hear me? Please put something in the questions panel so that I know I can hear you. Can hear me. Okay, great. Thank you. Thank you. Brima, thank you. Okay, let's start. There's one question, which one which is better infra, rent a cloud or a personal computer. We will talk about it in the next session. Okay, let's talk about the main part of this session is from idea to trading robot. How to do it? What's the overall thinking we should have? Okay, so first step is come up with trading idea. If you don't have trading idea, then there's no way to build a trading robot, so you need to have a trading idea. I mean, it's just idea. It's not something successful or just something actually, you you feel that it may work. Then you need to collect related data to the trading idea, then build a mathematical model to either prove or disprove the trading idea. Very likely you need to draw graph to help visualization. Then if you feel that the performance of your trading idea is good enough, then you can consider to build a program in average pie, and then back test the strategy, then forward testing, as we talk about live trade with small portfolio and then live trade with full portfolio. Okay, so that is very, very high level thinking. We will talk about this more in more detail. One question from rug Hazim in the previous slide, you mentioned that I preach pack and trade with TD Ameritrade as well. Can we get TD a single swing platform as well? Or is that restricted to IB TWS only? So used to be TD Ameritrade, but not anymore, because they change that their TD sell it to Charles Schwab, and then they don't have good support about their API trading anymore. So I need to update my my slide. Thank you very much for this question.

Speaker 1  1:04:40  
Okay, so for my session, let me ask you. Let me ask everybody a question for yourself. Do you have a good trading idea in your mind, or you don't have anything you can say? Yes or No,

Unknown Speaker  1:05:06  
anybody, no, okay, yes. How about others? Yes, no more. I want to see more.

Speaker 1  1:05:21  
Have idea. Okay, half, half, half, half, okay. Thank you so much everybody. Thank you so much. Okay, if you don't have a trading idea, then we need to actually, for for my sessions, I need to have some trading ideas. I cannot. I don't know yours. And you may not, you may not have any trading idea at all. So what my job is to give you some, some hint about how to come up some trading idea. Okay, and then we can build a trading robot, do some tuning, something like that. Let's just start from really basic idea about trend or swing. What's the definition about the trend or swing? The trend means if something go up, you believe it will keep going up, keep going up, keep going up, until it switch, it will go down, go down, go down, and go up, up, up, up. Then that is called a trend. So this is upward trend, this is downward trend, upward trend, downward trend. The basic idea is, if it go up, you believe that. You believe it will go up. If it's going down. You believe the future it will going down, but you may guess it wrong. That's another problem. But that is idea of trend swim means you believe something go up too much, the future will go down. Okay, if it's going down, you believe the future is going up. So that is Swim. Swim means go up, go down, go up, go down. You believe overall it's go up, go down, go up, go down. But the the, you know, the others, how do I see that the variance may be different or range may be different? So go up, go down, go up, go down, go up, go down. It's just up and down. You believe more up and down. That is called Swing. Okay, so my question is, it's just a purely personal preference. Do you believe in more swing, or do you believe in more trend you can see as OT, which one you believe in more okay, do not sell as t, as t, s, t, s s, most win T, okay, good, T, T, S, S T, T, but train, okay. But as sometime, okay, okay, great. Thank you very much for your response. Okay, okay, good. Thank you so much more swing for scalping purpose from heat, okay, okay, okay, that's okay, okay, okay, but one thing you must keep in mind, this chart is a monthly chart. I remember a weekly chart. What is that? I don't remember, okay. But if we oh, this is a weekly chart, I remember, okay. But if you change to daily chart, it looks so different. It looks so different. So and also, when you change the time period, your attitude may change a lot. Okay, so this chart is just spy, and this is a daily bar, and I chose it for some period. Oh, one thing you need to remember is spy is the ticker of ETF which tracks Standard and Poor 500 SP, 500 index. It is an ETF. When I say spy, I mean the ETF. Okay, so we can trade it, okay, so you, you will hear I talk about spy, many, many times, okay, and this is SP why. So swim means, look at this area. Swim means, go up, go down, go up, go down, go up, go down. That I means. Win trend means go down, go down, go down, go down, go down. It is a trend, okay? Or something like this, go up, go up, go up. Okay, so purely, purely look at this, purely look at this chart. Do you believe in swing or trend, swim or trend, what's your belief? Purely look at this chart. Purely look at this chart. As somebody said, as Monique Camden said, T, how about others? What's your feeling? I just want to you. Give it some depends on time frame. Time Frame is daily. Bar daily, chart, Nick logic, time frame is daily, daily. Okay, means that T world said, As for me, upgrade set as still half heart, you know, just just expect it. Different people have different opinion, and both way can make money. Don't worry. Okay, what's the difference between momentum versus trend, swing or trend? I There's no definition about what's the momentum. It depends on, on you how to interpret that, okay? Because momentum is just the physical word, and they borrow it from physics into momentum. So momentum, my interpretation, just based on, purely based on the meaning is means trend, because it assume, because there's a physics law, is momentum conservation, which means you, if you have a momentum, then it will keep the same momentum until something change. Okay, what's the difference between daily momentum versus swing versus trend. I don't know what's the daily momentum really mean, because okay, but the basic idea is, what do you believe? What do you believe? You believe after it goes up? What do you believe? If you believe in trend, then then your prediction will go up. If you if you believe in swing, then your prediction will go down. That's as simple as that. You don't need to get too much technical words to describe that, but you need to. You need to understand the worst. The core concept behind these terms. Okay, so let's think about that people, human being. Are we, from your personal experience, are we swim believer or trained believer in nature as a human being, what's your what's your thinking as a human being in our society, trend? Why Brahma? Why trend Trias?

Unknown Speaker  1:13:18  
Why trend vermess said, swim. Why swim? Many come. Okay, so for example,

Speaker 1  1:13:30  
let me give you an example. You have a very good friend. You have a very good friend. What does it really mean? What does it really mean, will you do more work or do more talk to him more, or talk to them less? If you have good, good friend, but what's the definition of friend? Think about that long term relationship, slow to change. Mass adoption, sharing of more, yes. So because in your past experience, you have more relationship with somebody, and you feel they are kind, kind to you, or some love or something else together, sharing your memory together. Talk to them more in the past, you believe in that person won't change too much. So you keep the friendship, which means you believe in the trend. You assume same thing will repeat in the future. That is trend, okay? If you think this friend today is good to me tomorrow, he will do some bad things to me, then that is not the trend. That is swing. Okay? And as a human being, our belief about friendship is a good example of trend. Clear any question.

Speaker 1  1:15:20  
No question. Okay, there's a comment from heat. I'm using multiple time frame, trading most of time, and I differentiate swing and trend as higher, high and higher. Low is the trend, but the movement between high and low is win or vice versa? Really good comment. Okay, it depends on time frame. Really depend on that, and also think about what is higher high means. It's really that is that a high and high? Is that the trend or higher become low? Is that this trend or swing? So that is some very basic concept, okay, okay, you can come up many, many example like that. It's okay, as long as you understand what I mean by swing and trend, then we can continue the discussion, because that concept is critical when we build something as a trading robot. Okay, let's continue. Okay, one question. So assuming, assuming I am, I believe in more swing. I believe if I swing, okay, I came up with a trading idea like that. If you don't have trading idea, I just purely look at Australia said, so, swing is dating. Trend is merit. Good example. I won't put any comments. Okay, let's go back to trading. So assuming you want to purely look at this graph, and assuming we only trade daily, daily bar, okay, assuming this one, I come up with a trading idea, assuming I'm standing at this point. At this point, let me see at this point, assuming I believe in more swing, I look at back so yesterday, the price goes, goes up, and then my at this point, my prediction is the price will go down, the move to here. At this point, if I go back, I see, oh, the price dropped from yesterday to today because I believe in more swing. So I predict the price will go up. This is my trading idea. If you don't have one, hold on a little bit. Let me make some drawing. It will be easier for you to understand what I mean. Okay, let me try to start a drawing layout. Hold on a little bit. It's first time to use this one annotation. No, it's not annotation. I remember there is a drawing somewhere.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:45  
Enjoy. Oh, why the more? How can I for that? Let me move it up. Share.

Unknown Speaker  1:19:00  
No

Speaker 1  1:19:02  
if I move it here, can I move it to how can I let you to see my screen? Can you see, actually, I'm drawing something in the whiteboard. Can you see me? I'm trying to present. Others can see that you won't see. Hold on a little bit. It's different than I am used to be. No whiteboard is visible, okay. How can I draw something? Share? No, it won't share. How can I draw something?

Speaker 1  1:19:52  
No, whiteboard. Okay, I know. I know. I know. Okay, okay, let me I'm trying to figure out how to draw something. I. Because I'm sharing one screen and I want

Unknown Speaker  1:20:21  
to know how do people Here? Let me try something.

Speaker 1  1:20:39  
Share, share window. Try it. Okay, let me try. Hold on a little bit. I'm trying to nope, no not. Share document. Share document. No, no doubt,

Speaker 1  1:21:10  
I really don't. Oh, there's document. Whiteboard open wide. Will stop sharing? Do we want to continue? Yes, let me try that. I

Speaker 1  1:21:25  
No, it doesn't work. Hold on, Oh, hold on. I'm drawing something. Oh, I was trying to share screen that work. Hold on. Let me try it. Okay, you see the whiteboard? Yes, you can see that. That's great. That's great. Oh, whiteboard, yes. Hold on, hold on. I am trying to look for my Oh, finally, I can do something. Okay, that's great. You can see there's a whiteboard, right, but you cannot see my screen anymore, okay, let me clear the page. Remove all unlock, clear page. So I have something. Okay, great. So let me do something that, assuming this is time. Okay, this is day 12345,

Speaker 1  1:22:30  
okay, and this is the price, price, so assuming you are standing at here, and you look at yesterday's price was here and today's price is here, okay, assuming something like this, and when you look back, you see, oh, The price go up from yesterday to today. Okay, okay, assuming I believe in swing, okay, assuming I'm I believe in swing. Okay, then my prediction about price is price will go down. Okay, that's my prediction. Why? Why it's like that? I just want to draw a line like this. Okay, okay, then assuming today. So then at this moment, what order should I place? Assuming I standing here, I look back the price go up, and I believe in swim. What should I do? What order should I place? Anybody? But no, I'm I believe in swim, and I'm standing here, short Zubin, yes. Short, yes. Short, short, yes, you got my point money. Money can then yeah, short, right, yes, buy low and sell high. Yes. Fee, yes, yes. So at this moment, I want to short, so the price goes like this. I can make some money. And the one standing at the here, and look back, the price drops right. The price drops at this moment. What order should I do? What other should I place about others? Agree, very by long, deep, yes, yes, everybody agree, yes, I should long, right, okay, and same thing at this moment. What should I do? If I believe in swing? What should I do? Short, yes, you got. It so I can make money. Okay, that's good. That is win, okay, that is swing, and assuming I'm doing daily trading, okay, okay, this is, I'm a swing. So look at this. You don't have it, okay, let me clear let me clear it the other case. The other case is same, 12345,

Speaker 1  1:25:35  
the price goes there to here. I'm standing here. The price goes up from yesterday to today. If I believe in trend, what should I do? What other should I place? What others? How about others? Anybody else? If I'm a trend, we're Miss worm, see worm, see, we're near by, right? If I believe long, then it will go like this. If I believe it, trend like this, right. Okay, that is 10. Okay, clear. Everybody any question. If no more question, let's switch to the presentation. Hold on. How can I share? Google? Want to continue sharing screen? Okay, good. Let me switch, switch to screen. Okay, I assume you can see my screen, right? Everybody, let me check the questions panel, not questions panel. It should be Q and A. I Okay, yes, some question about so swing or trend based on instrument we trade? Yes, of course, three trend needs to conform between before you short, long or short? No, actually, it's just a trading idea, okay, my trading strategy is like this. When I stand at any point like here, my action is, look back, check out yesterday's price. If the price goes up from yesterday and I am a swing, then my prediction is the price will go down, so my action will be short, okay, that is my trading idea. Any question? Everybody? I want everybody fully understand this trading strategy, because we will talk about this strategy again and again and again. Make sure you fully understand this part. If you have any question, raise it. No. Can you repeat trend strategy? Okay, that's great. Trend strategy is like this. I'm standing at here. I look back, if the price go down, my prediction is the price will go down. And I look back, the price go down, my prediction will go down, go down, go down. Okay, same thing I'm standing here and look back the price go up, because I believe in trend, so my prediction is the price will go up. So my action is too long, okay, is that clear? That's the difference between trend and the swing. Okay? Any questions.

Speaker 1  1:29:10  
Any questions. Make sure everybody fully understands. Thank you for yes. Thank you. No questions, let's continue. Okay, one question to you, one question to you, purely look at this graph and based on daily, and I believe in swing, I trade daily. Do you think I can make some money based on the strategy I gave you? You can say yes or no or just no idea. Just purely look at that if I trade daily based on my strategy, probably yes, okay. How about others? Yes, okay. How about others? No need to test Yes, where, where I said, Okay, half, half anymore, anymore, any more, maybe, yeah, maybe, okay, yes, okay, a little bit more. Said, yes, okay, good, remember your answer. Okay, remember your answer. Let's continue. Okay, let me give you the description about this strategy. Okay, so trading idea is like this, if price drops compared to yesterday, the price drops compared to yesterday. I want to buy in. So you see, I believe in string, swing, right. Okay, I believe in swing. Otherwise, sell off and trade daily. So my trading idea is very simple. Look at today's price, look at the yesterday's price, and if price go up, I short. If price go down, I will long. So I call it buy low, sell high. Okay, that is the trading idea. Next step is, I want to collect related data for my case as spy, I want to build a mathematical model to test I'm going to use linear regression. A lot of people ask, why do we want to use linear regression? Because it's the simplest machine learning model, and I can explain it in our class, otherwise, there's too much knowledge. I cannot explain it well in the class with limited minutes. Okay, that is reason, okay. You after your class, you can following the same thinking pattern and try other machine learning models. Okay, okay. Nicolas mentioned that buy and hold is the ultimate trend strategy. Yes. Okay, then I'm going to draw graph. How very visualization. I'm going to a Python package called math plot lib. Then I'm going to program in average pi. The outcome is strategy py file. Then I'm going to back test the strategy. Okay, keep it in mind. That's the core of today's session and the next session. This is our roadmap. Roadmap is here. Okay, pause a little bit. Any questions, make sure you fully understand what are our roadmap that's very important. Any questions about strategy, our roadmap, clear.

Speaker 1  1:33:09  
Questions, no, nothing. Okay, let's continue. Let's move on. Okay. Finally, it's time to talk about some code. Okay, hold on, let me. Let me out and let me more. This one here, I

Speaker 1  1:33:44  
Okay, let me turn off my video, because, based on my previous experience, it, my computer will become very slow sometime. Okay, if no objection, I will turn off my video, and this moment, I will keep the hold on a little bit I need To change my power core. It doesn't charge correctly. So

Speaker 1  1:34:25  
okay, right now it's good. Assume it charts. Well, okay, let me continue. Can you see my screen?

Unknown Speaker  1:34:42  
I assume you can see my screen. Okay, let me clear off.

Speaker 1  1:34:55  
Okay, good, okay, let me go to the top. Okay. Okay. This is a Jupiter notebook with some Python code. Okay. Beginning I want to say something is, do not repeat what I'm doing in the class, because every time people will come up say something wrong in every fact, don't do it. Please don't repeat what I'm doing, because that's not worth your time to repeat. You can repeat after the class. Please follow me the discussion. Follow my discussion. Don't repeat. Don't tell me you cannot run average high because it's not a good question right now. Okay? And I will explain line by line, not line by line, but block by block. Okay, and give you some comment. Okay, so let me run the first block. The first block is like this. It's just some import the most, the most important thing is this one. When you run, when you try to run, if you see something like an import error, very likely you didn't set up Python path correctly. Okay, I install my average pi. Add this folder. I call it the Yellowstone, and I need to set the pass on path this way so that there's no error. Okay, that is critical thing. Other than that, it's just some import. I won't talk about too much about it. Okay, okay, then this block, this block should use Yahoo Finance. Why finance equals to force. What does it mean? A few months ago, Yahoo Finance was free to everybody, and there's no limit. The most famous package related to Yahoo Finance is called a y finance. That packet? You can use it many to get many information from Yahoo Finance, but Yahoo decide to monetize their service so it doesn't work anymore. Then, because we need to get data, real time data or historical data, then we need to do something. So what I'm doing is I have an interactive broker account. So I'm using a paper account. This is my paper account, and I have my this is IB gateway. And you can see I'm getting, not got connected, but this is the IB gateway I'm using so that I can get information from Interactive Brokers. Okay, I will keep it in background, okay, and what I'm doing is here is to build average path. This is a building function, and put my account number here. Account Number is not a secret. It's just a number. You won't get anything from there is a purely account, okay, you can see this get connected and average pass started to work already. It display you account balance portfolio, value position, value position or other if there are any Edwardes, okay. So

Speaker 1  1:38:46  
she asked, Is that a misspelled? No, it's not misspelled. Okay, that is the packet. Oh, maybe I find that fine. Oh, yes, it's a misspelled, but it's just the variable misspelled, yes, you're correct. Yes, thank you, yeah, okay, but that's not okay. Next is okay. I'm trying to get historical data. I'm doing it in real time. I I'm getting it from okay, if Yahoo Finance is available, I will do things like that. Yahoo Finance is not available, so I'm doing things this way. You see, there is a function called Request historical data. This is average pay function to get historical data and the format is like, this is, I want spy, I want a daily bar, and I want historical data in the past 20 years. Okay, that is the format in every. Path. It's pretty straightforward, actually. So you can just do something like that after I click it. The return of this function is called hist. The type, the type of hist historical data is pandas data frame. This pandas data frame. Okay, good. And then what I'm going to do is to display the data I have and tell doesn't work. It should work. No error. Okay, anything wrong, okay, ready to okay, it's just right. It to a file so that we can use it later. Hold on. Let me try that. Okay, that is working. So this is the format, timestamp you can see today, Open, High, Low, Close or not today, but the latest open market date, Open, High, Low, Close, volume, okay, yes. And come back this to this function. A little bit discussion about this function. Okay, everybody. Follow me here. This is very critical. Please. Please follow me. This is very important. Everybody. Okay, so the input of this function is pandas data frame. It's called hist. I'm going to add three columns, the first columns. The first column is called close yesterday. What does it mean? Because look at this, this, pandas data frame. Let's look at this row, the close price, close price, open cloud, open price, assuming everything is attached to this timestamp. Okay, so that I call it today's price, either today's close price, or today's open price, price, or high price or low price. However, what I really need is at the same row. I want to have an extra column and the price is close price from yesterday. Why do I need to do that? Because in machine learning package, the most packages will handle the data within the same row. So I need to add more rows so that the machine learning can use the data from the same row. That's why I'm trying to add more column. The first column I need is yesterday's price. How can I do that? It's very easy. I just shift close one step down, which means moving this price to here, so that in the same row, I will have the price, close price of today and the close price of yesterday. That's very simple. The next column I'm going to add is called a close price change from yesterday to today. Actually, this one is a percentage relative to yesterday's price, close price yesterday. So the formula is very straightforward. Is close price today minus close price yesterday divided by close price yesterday, so that this number is a percentage number. Okay, it's the change in percentage actually. Okay, so we have a price from yesterday to today, and also in the same row, I want to have a close price from today to tomorrow. How can I get that? I can simply shift this column one step up. It's still very abstract. Let me do it and then display that. Okay, the new data looks like this after removing the not available data. Okay, look at this row. So today's price is this number. Close yesterday is this number is just simply copy this price to here. You see, just copy this one to here so that in the same row I have close price today, I have close price yesterday. Okay, then I calculate the percentage change close price change from yesterday to today. And this is a fractional number, and it has positive and the negative, the positive means the price going up from yesterday to today, if this one is positive, if this one is negative, which means the price drops from yesterday to Today. Okay, that's very critical. Everybody, very critical. Okay, there's another column called price close, price change from today to tomorrow, which means I'm shifting this value to here, and shifting this price because relative to this line, this one is the price from today to tomorrow. So I just copied this number to here so that I have tomorrow's number. Okay, any question at this moment. Any question at this moment is very important. Everybody very, very important here.

Unknown Speaker  1:46:52  
Any questions, could you repeat? Which part you want me to repeat? Three years,

Speaker 1  1:47:02  
explain today to tomorrow. Okay, no problem. So you get the point of from from yesterday to today. That's very straightforward, right? Because I have a close price a day and I have close price yesterday. So this one is just simply calculated based on today's close and yesterday's close. So I have this one right. I have this column, okay, so this value, relatively to this row, is the price from today to tomorrow, so that I just simply copy this value to here. Okay, I just copy this value to here so that in the same row I have the price from today to tomorrow. Many Canada, is that clear? Shriyas? Is that clear? Okay, good. Thank you. Okay, okay, after we finish this manipulation, then the next step is to use a machine learning package. Okay, so I have the dependent variable and the independent variable in linear regression, so I my fitting target is close price change from today to tomorrow, because it has tomorrow. That's that, that is the model is designed for. Is the Predict tomorrow and then place order to make some money. Okay, so I have price tomorrow, and I want to fit from the price change from yesterday to today, which means I want to use today's price and yesterday's price to predict the price tomorrow in my model. So why is the dependent variable? Yes, is the fitting target.

Speaker 1  1:49:27  
Okay, my model is linear regression. You can see it here, and I'm just simply fit it. Okay, it's very simple to fit. So I got models coefficient and intercept. The coefficient is this number and the intercept is this better any question at this step, I assume everybody is very familiar with linear regression. It's just a high school class actually supposed to be okay? Great. Thank you. Thank you. I agree. Thank you. Okay, everybody is familiar with that, but it's still very abstract. I agree. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to make drawing to help you visualize that. Okay, this is the visualize each point represent a role in the pandas data frame. Okay, the black line here is the fitting line. This is the fitting line, and it tilt like this way because the coefficient is negative, negative. So that line tilt this way. Okay, and you can see the x axis is close price change from yesterday to today. The Y axis is the close price change from today to tomorrow, which means this is the dependent variable. This is the independent variable. I'm trying to use this x axis to predict tomorrow's price, okay, and one thing you need to remember when the price is positive, which means the price goes up. Same thing here, same thing here, positive. If the price is positive, means price go up. If this number is negative means the price goes down. Same thing here. Okay, with this context, what's your interpretation? Anybody?

Speaker 1  1:52:16  
Anyone? What's your interpretation about this, this linear regression model.

Speaker 1  1:52:29  
So Monica then mentioned, so the model is not that good. Do you don't? Said, swing. Okay. Nicholas said, live in a swim world. Live in a swim world. Here. Good, good. Vamsee said, when the price increase, then the next day, price is decreasing. Great. Great Vera. Vera said this is similar to a R, I m, a model, right? Yes, similar. Actually, this is a auto regression. Okay, I don't want to throw out these terms, because not a lot of people are familiar with that so, but you are correct. Okay? Good. If you still don't get it, let me switch to my explanation right here. So this is what we are looking at about the linear regression model. Then let's add some line. So add a zero line in the x axis. So on the this side is the price goes up from yesterday to today, because in this region, the whole region x axis is positive. Positive means the price goes up, okay. And in this region, the price goes down from yesterday today. Just keep it in mind if we put another horizontal line, horizontal line like that. In the above area, the price go up from today to tomorrow, because in this area is a positive positive here and underneath the red line, the price goes down from today to tomorrow. Okay, then if we combine them together, we will have a quadrant. Okay, a quadrant. Look at this area. Look at this area. Only so the price goes up from yesterday to today, and the price goes up from today to tomorrow. Okay, okay, in this area, this area, and look at this area, this area, this area, the price goes up from yesterday to today and goes down from today to tomorrow. Yeah, especially this point, which means yesterday, today is a big increase, about 8% increase, and then it drops to more than 10% so it's a good example about the swing. Same thing here in this whole area, you can see yesterday the price goes down, especially this area. Yesterday, the price goes down, and it's a big drop. But tomorrow, the price go up. That's why somebody mentioned, we live in a swim world. Here, any questions. Here, any question. No.

Speaker 1  1:56:25  
No any question. Let me ask you a question. Oh, there's one question from many candidates. So you know, our strategies. Win would have performed better since the line is sloping downward. It's a question I want to ask you is, do you believe we can make some profit based on swing strategy? Do you believe after you see in the coefficient, Nikola J said, what's the correlation coefficient for this block is minus 1.1 minus 0.1 minak said no, because strength is not very tight. Sugar ham, most of point appearing in the center, so most time is non trading. Now actually think about that. As long as the price goes down, I will place a short order. As long as the point shows up here, I will place a short order. If I see something like this, I will play I will place long order. I will do it every day, daily Viras swing can be done only when the points are far away from zero. No from my strategy, as long as it's greater than zero, I will place order for this area, anything, any point I will play a short order, but this side, because my prediction,

Speaker 1  1:58:17  
yeah, Because I believe in Sweden, so for the whole region, because my prediction the price will go down. So I will place a short order for the whole region. Whole region, okay, I will place a long order. Clear my strategy, Vera, Vera shukham, what's the expectation for strength strategy? Need more parameters to decide whether it's profitable or not. I don't want to introduce more parameters just purely following my model. Do you believe we can make money or not? Such swing strategy is not looking profitable. That's okay. Any other any other comments, any other comments, no comments. Okay, right now my local time is a 1005, let's have a seven minute break. Seven minute break. Okay, let me finish this one crucial ask for your strategy. You will place orders in the first and third quadrant, right? No, every quadrant, every quadrant, not only one three. Because there's no way for me to know is that the first quadrant or the third quarter. The only thing I know is either the one or fourth or two, three. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  1:59:48  
The only thing I know is this line. The only thing is like this.

Speaker 1  1:59:58  
Murmcy said, two quarters. Versions are supporting swing and the distribution of data seems to be concentrated in swing trade. I would back test for swing trade. Yes, that is the plan. That is the plan. Yes. Okay, so seven minute break. Let me mute you.

Speaker 1  2:05:01  
The strategy we talk about, okay, can you hear me? Okay, great. Thank you. Let's continue. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Nari, yeah, thank you. Okay, let's continue. So we talk about the strategy we talk about? Okay, so after we have this one, what I'm going to do is, so for SP, why this one? Let's talk about this number, minus 0.1 is that a strong correlation? Oh, it's a weak correlation. What's your interpretation? Meridian said, No. How about others? I

Speaker 1  2:06:07  
sure, sir, no, okay, yes, everybody agrees. Is a weak, very, very weak correlation, right? If you talk to a statistician said there is correlation, they will laugh at you, because typically, if this number is lower than 0.6 or 0.7 then typically we don't see there is a correlation, and our model is only 0.1 then it's really, really, really weak, if any correlation. Okay, so based on this number, we will see, probably SPI is not a good example. How about others? How about others? To answer that question, what I'm going to do is build a function. The input of this function is historical data. The output of this function is models coefficient and in the middle is exactly the same as before. Let's run it. Okay? The next one will be fine, actually. Okay, so here typically, I put something like QQ, that's going on. I

Unknown Speaker  2:07:50  
you know,

Unknown Speaker  2:07:56  
Q, Q and

Speaker 1  2:08:06  
APL, G, O, O, G, okay. What are they? Anybody? Spy, we know is ETF for SP, 500 what's QQ, anybody? Yeah, not stuck, yes, the ETF, yes. And Apple, Google, you got it? Oh, god, okay, okay. So what I'm going to do is I set up a universe. It has four, four ETFs and stocks, and I'm going to get historical data and then run my model and calculate the coefficient to see how it works. Which one have a better value? Okay, and starts it take a little bit time, because it takes time for Okay, oh, we got number here. Oh, okay. So we got 0.094 0.0 okay. Oh, right there, right there. This is the historical Okay, so 0.1 0.9 point 08, 0.02 0.04 Okay, looking at this number, what's your conclusion?

Unknown Speaker  2:09:57  
What's your conclusion? Anybody?

Speaker 1  2:10:09  
Very weak correlation, yes. Nicola said, don't put life savings in this trading idea. Okay, how about others? Any more comments? Any more comments?

Speaker 1  2:10:33  
No, okay, so, oh yeah, weak correlation, similar to spy strategy. Why there's a weak correlation is just an observation we cannot explain a minute said, weak correlation, yes, and relatively, Spy is a good candidate, right? Okay, so any other tickers? Anybody want to try any other tickers? Anybody? Want to try

Speaker 1  2:11:12  
any other tickers? Anyone? Okay, give me the ticker number. I cannot say Netflix. Give me the ticker number. Nifty is not. TSL, okay, US, US market only, okay, let's try it. NVDA. What's that? Everybody knows is Nvidia right? TSL, I assume is Tesla. Tesla is not. TSL, I don't think should have. TSL, are you sure?

Unknown Speaker  2:11:51  
TSL, I really don't know what's TL, let's try it out.

Speaker 1  2:12:02  
And yeah, T, S L A, yes. Should be T, S L A, yes, so it's not t s Tesla. And what's next? F, l x, f L x, Netflix, anything else anybody want to try? One more chance, only one chance. N, S T R, S T R, N, STR, What's N, STR, M, S T R, M S T R, what's Microsoft? No. M S T R, no idea, what is that and D O x, what is d o x? No idea. D O x. Let's try. I don't know. What are they actually, let's try. Do we have data or not?

Speaker 1  2:13:01  
Hold on a little bit. Let's see what do we have,

Speaker 1  2:13:11  
and Docs and Docs, no idea what's that? Still no idea what is that, but it's okay. Let's wait for a little bit to see if there are any error or not.

Speaker 1  2:13:35  
Take a little bit to get data from Oh, something wrong, probably some ticker. We don't have this number. I may not have the sum of them. Let me stop. Let me try for this. I think I may have something wrong. No, oh, yeah, something failed. Which one I don't have?

Unknown Speaker  2:14:18  
Oh, mstr is not valid. Yeah, that's my suspicious answer as well.

Speaker 1  2:14:26  
Let's wait for a media Tesla and Netflix. Let's wait for that. Yeah,

Speaker 1  2:14:57  
yeah, data are coming. I'm seeing data are coming. Mean, oh, there's a result.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:07  
Interesting. Tesla is 0.003 and Netflix is 0.01 anybody want to comment. Anybody? Anybody want to comment on that? What does positive mean?

Speaker 1  2:15:40  
Interesting slope. So swing works better in Tesla than others really. Tesla is 0.003 positive correlated, but minac What positive positively correlated means? I

Unknown Speaker  2:16:11  
what does it really mean? The net positively correlated? Do

Speaker 1  2:16:25  
same direction. What does same direction mean? Same results on today based on yesterday. The output, what does this really mean? X and Y are increasing and trending? Yes, that's the word I'm looking for. Same direction is trending. So Netflix is trending. Others are swing. Okay. Is it clear? That clear? So even if this number is very small, but it's still in the Negative Zone, but Netflix is in the positive zone. That's the difference. But is that strong? No, it's not. And spy is a relatively the best. Okay, then one thing I want to do is maybe my buy low, sale high is not a strong signal. Maybe, how about moving every MACD? MACD is a very popular one. MACD is very popular one. Will MACD give me some indicator? So to answer that question, I build a machine learning based on MACD. MACD is just a Moving Average crossover, but I made some change so because I want to compare different stocks so that I use 14 days moving average minus 28 days moving average and normalized by the close price. In this way, I can compare different I can compare different stocks, okay, and this is using spy to get MACD, and this looks like a very flat and the number is minus 0.02, so it's even weaker. Much weaker. Okay, much weaker. So if we go to others like Nvidia, Tesla, same thing, which means MACD is also not a good indicator here, because this number is too small. It's pretty close to zero. It doesn't mean anything at all. So we stop here because our model just tell us that. Okay, there's some question here. So manic, any room thumb to find the right window for finding the trend? No, it's just 20 years. We just get more data to see the overall trend. Vamsi, since we are looking at daily returns, will the coefficient be ever so strong, unless the stock is very volatile, not necessarily, yeah, and thinking about its daily returns anyway, the coefficient will be very weak, even if the stock is very volatile, it does not mean the coefficient will be strong. No, it doesn't mean that it. Okay, comparing MACD, we know my swing strategy is relatively strong, okay, but my real question is, after this analysis, I still can now say, can I make some money or not? Right? That is something I'm really interested in. So

Speaker 1  2:20:33  
how do you draw in the conclusion? Any room thumb to draw conclusions? No, there's no conclusions. It's just a comparison actually, okay? The only thing I can do is the comparison, because anything, I cannot make a conclusion by itself. Okay, so the next Jupiter notebook is designed to answer question is, how can I make money or not based on this swing strategy? That is the key point, right? Okay, let's run it. The first block is as same, same thing, the second block and the third block is saying, third one is to load historical data instead of using IB is kind of slow. Same thing at the yield exactly the same as before and a little bit different is here. Okay, so I'm trying to add more columns to the pandas data frame. The most important one is this column is called decision. Decision is my trading decision? Okay, that is the most important one. The trading decision based on one column is the price change from yesterday to today, okay, because I have my linear regression model. That's the only input to my model. How should I use it? It's very simple. If this number from yesterday today is lower than 0.0 which means if this one number is negative, My decision is one, otherwise my decision is zero. What does it really mean? It means that if the price from yesterday to today is less than zero, which means the price drops. My decision is one. My decision one means long. The decision is long. Otherwise, my decision is don't hold anything. My decision is 00. Means I don't want to hold anything. If I have anything about spy, just sell it off. I don't want to hold anything, because my prediction is the price will drop so that I don't want to hold anything. On the other side, if the price of yesterday, the price of yesterday to today, is going down, my prediction is the price will go up based on my linear regression model. So my action is to place a long order so that I put one any question about this line. It's very, very important here,

Speaker 1  2:24:11  
any questions many can then ask. So we need to find an instrument with high negative correlation to be profitable in swing strategy, yes, exactly. If we have a high positive correlation, then we'll be profitable in trend strategy, okay, but be careful the time frame. The time frame is daily. Here, any question about this line, it's very important line here, no question, then I will continue the other other columns. Many can ask, why zero, not minus one? Because. I want only long only strategy, not a long, short strategy. I want, don't want to play a short we can pass the short strategy later, not right now. Long only, okay, okay. And I want to add some other columns, but you don't need to look at them too much. It's just some Buy, buy and hold spy so that we can compare our result. Okay, and then we have this next one is, want to take a look about that. Okay, it's not easy to see the result. Let's make some drawing. Okay, the drawing tells us a lot of things. Okay, so the black one. The black line is spy, buy and hold spy, just spy. So you can see this is the 2008 crash, 2008 and this is 2020, I know this is covid. Covid was, Oh, this one should be the covid, right? And after covid is go up and like that. 2000 Okay, 2008 Yeah, 2008 this one, roughly 1518, yeah, covid, covid here, covid here, and the covid and then goes up and like this. The recently, this one, Oh, this one's a Liberation Day. Trump, April, 1 Liberation Day, right here, right. Okay, wow, okay, what's your opinion after covid is performing same as buy and hold you see the Liberation Day. It works pretty well. Okay, three years it's not relatively difficult to outperform buy and hold spy strategy, I would say, is very hard actually, to beat buy and hold spy Nicholas said works better in volatility period, volatile period. Yes, that's good observation. Mccannon said strategy is less volatile. Yes, that's a good observation, yes. If you calculate Sharpe ratio, the sharp ratio will be a little bit better than buy and hold strategy. But is that a good strategy overall? Is that a good strategy overall?

Speaker 1  2:28:21  
Can it make money? Any comments? Still not be able to draw conclusion. Can we make money? My question is. My next and need to see draw down. Drawdown is clear. The drawdown, biggest drawdown, is right here. It's right here. Biggest drawdown, okay, would be very expensive, expensive to implement, probably not. Why expensive? I was talking about transaction cost. Transaction cost is, at least at the entirety broker is very small, yeah, in this model, we must mention, we didn't consider broker cost. Yes, exactly. Anusha mentioned, yes, good strategy, sure, yes. In long term, if it is difficult to outperform buy and hold strategy, then how to optimize the portfolio strategy? Really good question. That's something I want to ask you. Shubham mentioned, we can make money. Should check expectancy and fixed cost should check expectancy and the fixed cost we can make money. Yes, if we buy in here, of course, we can make some money. But is that better than buy and hold spy? Let. Little bit better considering volatility, but it's not significantly better. No, it's not okay. But do you have any idea to improve it so that we can test your idea in class? Is there anything we can test in class?

Speaker 1  2:30:31  
Is any idea you want to suggest? Let's say, let's try it. To test it in class. Any anyone have any idea? Try different parameter for long how to change it? How?

Speaker 1  2:30:58  
Maybe use options. Our model doesn't have any option at all. No, don't talk about option here yet. Nikolage, check correlation against average of last n days of return instead of only one we don't have. We can. We don't have time to change our model. Don't do it now. Vera said, use leverage. Leverage won't help us at all, because our sharp ratio is there. Even if you change leverage, it won't change sharp ratio. Man Canada said, Why not go minus one instead of zero and Tessa again, that's really good. So men Candice said the idea is not long only but try long and short. That's a good idea. That's a good idea. Let's see. It's very simple to change we just change it to minus one. Minus one means we want to short. Okay, we want to short. Let's see how it works. So

Speaker 1  2:32:29  
Ho, ho, okay, that's the result. What's your comment? Long and short?

Speaker 1  2:32:43  
Definitely not. Okay. Anything else you want to try? We'll be losing the previous London in initial eight short. Yes, that is something we can test, but it's not that easy. We need to change a lot of things we can change. We can test something simple. We can test something really simple, any idea. Look at this line. What else we can change? Look at here, what else we can change? We

Speaker 1  2:33:28  
go, what? Two No, no, no. Toe two means yes, no, not, okay, okay, zero point, great, great. That's a great idea. 0.0 let's point 0.05. Let's try that. But what does it really mean? Actually, anybody, if we change to this one,

Speaker 1  2:33:59  
if I change from zero to 0.05005, what does it really mean? Anybody? Let's run it fast to see how the result and then let's talk about what does it really mean? Looks better, right?

Speaker 1  2:34:34  
Shubham. Shubham said if close price is about 0.5 percentage, then place a long order. But what does it really mean? Mathematically, you are correct. Narayan mentioned it means that we don't react if the moment lies. Price above a threshold and not a random noise. It's a little bit hard to understand, but let me explain you, which means the previous decision is we want absolutely swing strategy, which means as long as the price is lower than 0% then we will go long. But after we change it to 0.005 it means even if the price goes up a little bit, we still waiting for looking for a long position, right? Even if it's less than 0.5 percentage, we still place the long order, which means we're shifting a pure swing strategy into a mix of swing and trend.

Speaker 1  2:36:10  
Any question about that, any question about that. So actually, what we're doing is, look at this one. We're shifting this line to something like here, okay, we're just shifting it from here to something here, which means we're increasing the area about long position instead of absolutely zero. So we're shifting from a pure swing to a mixed of swing and the trend. Any questions? Question.

Speaker 1  2:37:15  
Sure, yes, what's the logic for portfolio strategy to output, outperform spy? We don't have a good way to outperform spy. The only thing we can do is to run different parameter to optimize our model, to see if there any room to outperform spy. You can see I changed the model a little bit, and the performance is getting better. Okay, so right now is 0.05

Unknown Speaker  2:37:54  
What if we change it to 0.01 let's change it a little bit.

Unknown Speaker  2:38:05  
Wow, much better. What's your conclusion here? Anybody? What's your conclusion?

Speaker 1  2:38:27  
Strong trends in the market. Really? Maria is this strong trends in the market, but our starting point is swing. Remember, more volatility and more sample points are covered while testing. No, I didn't change volatility. I didn't change data at all. I didn't. I didn't change any sample point. No, I didn't. The only thing I changed is changing my decision point. I didn't change my data at all. The only thing change I'm changing my decision right here. That's the only thing I'm changing. Okay, as the difference in price increases, the profit is shooting up when the price movement is significant, then the predictability is better. No, actually, no, okay, as I explained to you right now, my strategy is like that in the plain language, is if the price change from yesterday to today is less than 1% then I'm going to hold my long position. Okay, that is my action. I didn't change data. I didn't change model. I didn't change the number of sample points. No, I didn't change anything about that. I didn't change the volatility at all. No, the only thing I changed is my decision. My decision changed from purely swim to a swim plus trend, because think about that, 0.1% 1% is pretty big change in spy. But I said, even if the price change increase, as long as it's not greater than one percentage daily change, I'm holding my position, she asked so you continue to hold as long as percentage change less than 1% less than 1% okay, it's not greater. It's less than 1% as long as the change greater than 1% I don't want to hold anything so Okay, so somebody said, Why don't try 5% let's change to 5%

Speaker 1  2:41:20  
Oh, it's much worse. 5% not good. 5% is not good. It's almost identical till this point. So which means, at the beginning of covid, we gain a lot, but then after that is pretty much same, okay, okay, let's continue. So it seems like there is a sweet spot. So what I'm going to do is to Okay. One thing I want to try is, what if I change to 1% and I change it from a long only to long short? Whoa. Any comments? Anybody I

Speaker 1  2:42:26  
we are optimizing threshold, yes. We are doing Yes. Zubin said, bingo, yes, I have the same feeling. Definitely, yes. Okay, so Trias ask, is it actually possible to this in real world? Let me don't answer your question in this session. I will answer it in the next session. Okay, but something I've noticed that there must be some sweet spot, not zero point not necessarily 0.01 what I'm going to do is I'm going to sweep from minus 0.2 to Positive 0.2 and then I want to see what's the sweet spot, so you can see zero is right here. Zero is right here. It seems like zero is not. Yes, that's something I'm doing sure Shubham zero here, 0.05 is here. So 0.05 is much better than zero, but we can also shift it to left a little bit. So, which means, in this area is not a stable area. You can see from from 0.5 to positive, five is not that stable. But after 0.05 is becomes much better. 0.1 looks like around here. It seems like the top point is 0.011 yes, 0.011 is the ideal threshold. Okay, let's change it to 0.011 so one, and run it. Wow, 0.011, okay, okay, okay, it's my. Local time is 1054, I want to keep five minutes to answer your questions and homework. Homework to you, okay, the homework is she asked question? Shia question is, is it actually possible to this in real world? What goes wrong here? I don't want to answer this question today, because it has a lot of discussion. It will have a lot of discussion, but I want to leave it to you as a homework. What is wrong in my simulation that makes it unbelievably good? Okay? Yeah, this Shubham, this is long and short. If you want to check long only, we can change it to long only.

Unknown Speaker  2:46:16  
Under running, yeah, long only is good, not as good as a long and short.

Speaker 1  2:46:32  
Overfitting is done in these strategies. Okay, this is good thinking, actually, but I want to ask you a follow up question, how to evaluate overfitting and underfitting. Maybe somebody are not familiar with this term. If you don't, you can try to find it out after the class. But what else? But at this point, do you believe we can make some money? Yes or No, anybody. Do you believe we can make some money? Do you feel comfortable that we can beat spy. Is there any chance to beat spy?

Speaker 1  2:47:36  
Verde verde man said at this point, does this strategy mean, if we have an active, long or short order, and unless it moves more than 1.1% in our direction, we will not close and switch our position to the opposite order? Yes, you understand it absolutely correct? Yes. Three years, maybe in swing the next said, No, out of sample. Need to do. Anusha said, I think the signal generated by or short is based on future data. So we're getting these high returns, really Anusha think about that as a homework. Think about that as homework. Shubham said, Are we squared off old trade? It depends on your strategy. If you put zero, then which means yes, Monique Hazim said, is the last order close? The last order? No, actually, it's calculating the portfolio value. It doesn't matter. Even if the last order is not closed, the result won't change significantly, but the calculation is based on the liquidation value. Manic said, we learn the parameters from the data and we test on data itself, that kind of leakage. Okay, so that's good thinking. I won't answer your question at this moment. We will talk about that in the next session. There must be something not that real, but it looks very promising. One thing I want to mention that if you cannot make money in your model, there's no way to make money in your real account, right? That's the minimum. Okay? If. You make money in your simulation, you will have a little bit higher chance to make money in your Live account. Good. Any questions, is that clear? The homework, because this performance looks so good, we need to understand what went wrong. Okay, she has asked so how to find out the safe bet? There's no safe bet. The market can change anytime, okay, okay. The first homework is to answer, to reflect what's going on in our model, okay. The second homework is, please finish the average pay prerequisite, okay. But the one thing is, by tuning our model, we may have some chance to beat spy agree, yes or no, yes or no, anybody, yes, yes. I hope you got some positive answer by following me the discussion. Okay, my local time is Thank you. Man, Nick, thank you. Thank you. Thank you for the good things about me about the session. Thank you. Okay, my local time is 11pm and this is the end of today's session, you will be prompted to read my class. I hope you can give me a five star either way. Please give me some comments. It's the first thing I'm looking for my email. Is looking for your comments, reading. I read every word carefully and any suggestions, I will treat them seriously. I promise you. Thank you so much, everybody. I really love the interactive session, and hopefully you like it. Thank you so much. See you in the next session. Have a nice day, and that's good morning or evening in whatever time zone. Thank you so much. I hope you learned something. Thank you. Get Connected, bye, bye.

