Speaker 1  0:06  
Hey everyone, welcome to this class on quantitative portfolio management. This is Jay here, and I will be the present of today's class. Before we begin, can you guys please confirm if I'm audible loud and clear, I A quick response on the chat would do perfect. I hope you guys can also see my screen. Great, thanks. Thanks, guys, for confirming. So today we are going to put ourselves into the shoes of a portfolio manager, and we'll discuss what are the questions and the decisions one has to take when they start building portfolios, and the kind of questions that we are going to answer are purely based on the quantitative analysis, are purely based on the how what data tells us, right? So there are many ways in which portfolios could be built, either of strategies or financial instruments, regardless. In today's class, we are going to discuss one of those questions, one of those approaches which use quantitative data. And then we'll say we shall see how using the data we could go ahead and we could try to answer what are the various questions that portfolio manager needs to answer. Okay, now the focus of the lecture today being the is the portfolio is the is the portfolio management which we are going to apply using python. Okay, so in a way the idea is to discuss the concepts of the portfolio management implemented via Python. So today I'm going to take a bit liberty not to explain, or I'd say not to explain each line of the code, because you, I presume that you guys know how to run those Python code and what it contains, even though, if I like, again, regardless if you find any piece of code confusing or challenging, do let me do that, we know, I will take it, and I will explain that particular piece in much more detail, so rather explaining each line of code, I am going to tell you what part of the code does what particular thing with respect to portfolio management. Okay, so that is one thing. The lecture is divided into multiple sections, the first, the first few sections are the portfolio building blocks, wherein we are going to discuss, like, what are the various aspects that we need to keep in mind while analyzing any financial instrument. Then we are going to focus on the portfolio creation, and then towards the end of the class we are going to see how risk risk diversification works and what are different types of risk that we face and how do we optimize the portfolio the last part of this class that is the profitability analysis wherein we discuss various ratios is a self-study per part we are not going to cover in the lecture, but I have made sure that this particular part contains enough annotations and comments, so that if you go by yourself, you should usually find, you should usually don't find, don't find any issues, even though if you find any issues while going through them, do let me know, like we can connect and we can discuss that part. Okay, so the third part is the self-study part. Great. Before we start discussing the concept, I have a very small question for you, and the question is, and the question is, What, according to you, is a best portfolio? Take 10 seconds or so, and try to answer what, according to you, is a best portfolio. Okay, I have started receiving responses. I am expecting a. You, more okay, so I will go through the responses one by one. So one of the responses says that a best portfolio is the one that balances risk and reward, a portfolio that maximizes certain ratio, a portfolio that gives maximum risk-adjusted returns. Okay, a one with equal weight in a particular broad-based index, a portfolio with high Sharper ratio, and a portfolio which provides higher Sharpe ratio. Okay, so these are some of the few responses that I have received. One more response, which says like portfolio which gives neutral beta. Okay, yeah, so these are like some responses that we say that we have received over here, which usually says that, or if I have to make the general assumption.

Speaker 1  6:11  
Okay, not assumption, but I'd say if I have to make a generalization of all the responses that I have received over here is I can say that according to majority of us over here the best portfolio is a portfolio, the best portfolio is a portfolio that gives, or I would say that has minimum risk and maximum returns, right. Okay, so this is the generalization of what most of us said over here in different ways, so one said, like, portfolio that includes global diversification. One one more response says it should have good risk to reward ratio, while consistency, while consistently having good adjusted returns. Yeah, true, right? However, there is no single definition of a best portfolio. Okay, there is no single best definition of a portfolio. The definition of a portfolio changes based on the objective of the portfolio, right? The definition of the best portfolio changes based on the objective of the portfolio, so if the objective is to build a portfolio that preserves the capital. Okay, if the objective of the portfolio is to preserve the capital that we invest, then the definition of the best portfolio would be very different than the portfolio that tries to achieve capital appreciation, right, that tries to appear that tries to achieve capital appreciation or generates alpha, for example, the entities there, so there are there are multiple entities, like say endowment funds, okay, or university funds, or say pension funds for entities like this, they usually create portfolios which are, which are of very, which are less risky in colloquial terms. Okay, because the main objective is to preserve the capital. If they can't preserve the capital that they invest, okay, they won't be able to provide pensions, they won't be able to expand university functionalities, okay, or they won't be able to provide the endowments as and when they mature, so entities like this, when they invest in the market, their core idea is to preserve the capital, and on the other hand, entities like mutual funds, or hedge funds, or even like private entities, like, you know, managed accounts for entities like this. The core principle is the core principle to build the portfolio is to achieve capital appreciation. They are seeking a. Far from the investment that they make, okay, and as a result, as a result, their definition of a best portfolio would be entirely different than the definition of these entities, right? So there is no single definition of the best portfolio. Whenever we want to build a portfolio, the very first question that we need to answer is that for what objective are we building the portfolio? Like, again, what is what would be the purpose of the portfolio that we are building? Like, again, what this portfolio is going to sell, so most of the times, what I have experienced, and what I have observed is many retail traders, or the entities that don't focus on this, this part, they implicitly manage, or they implicitly believe that the portfolios that we should create should always fall in this category, mostly this is true, but not always right. So, whenever you start building the portfolio, give yourself time and try to answer what would be the objective of the portfolio, and that will give you more clarity. Okay, now that most of us over here has given the response that the best portfolio is a portfolio that that has minimum risk and maximum returns. Let us try to do one thing. We will make this particular statement, okay? We will make this particular statement the goal for today's class, the goal for today's class, and we will try to come up with a portfolio that tries to achieve the minimum risk. Okay, that tries to achieve minimum risk and maximum returns. Now, see, at this point in time, we don't know what would be like, what would be the quantified value of minimum risk, and we don't know what would be the quantified value of maximum returns. What we are saying is that we will try to build a portfolio that that could achieve these two properties. Okay, so just keep the, just keep it in the back of your mind that this is what we intend to do. How that is, that is something that we will discuss right now. See, whenever we build portfolio, there are few more questions we need to answer.

Speaker 1  12:41  
Okay, there are a few more questions that we need to answer, and those answers use the answers to those questions don't usually come on its own. It will come one by one, as in, when, like, as and when we get clarity on the on the previous questions, so first, like I said here, that we want to build a portfolio. Now, portfolio of what financial instruments? Okay, so like, what financial instruments will I use to build a portfolio, right? So the very first question that we need to answer, that what universe of assets are we going to use to build a portfolio. The second question would be the second question would be How many constituents would be in the portfolio? Okay, or in other words, how many strokes would be there as a part of the portfolio, right, and the third question that we need to answer would be, in what proportion, right, in what proportion should we invest in each of those constituents? constituents, right? That is the what.. what should be the weights of those constituents in the portfolio. Now, these are the three questions that we need to answer to build a portfolio. So, very.. so the very first thing that we need to do is to is to define the objective of the portfolio, which we did over here, right. So we say that our, our objective of the portfolio is to our objective of the portfolio is to have minimum risk and maximum returns, right. Then we. Once we define that, we need to answer these three parts, but before we could do this, before we could go ahead and we could answer these questions, we need to know how to build portfolios, right? How to analyze the portfolio, so that we could answer these three points. So that is what we are going to do. That is what we are going to start with, right now. As I said, that at this point in time I don't have these quantified, quantifiable numbers for these two variables, so let us do one thing. Let us go ahead and let us just start building a portfolio of, let us just start building a portfolio, and we'll then see, based on the analysis, what these numbers come out to be right now? Whenever we don't have any particular point to start with, all we could do is we could start from literally anywhere, right? We could start with literally anywhere. So let us do one thing. Let us go ahead and let us try to start by investing in a single stock. Okay, let us start by investing in a single stock. So, first I will import all the necessary libraries. Now, these are pretty standard libraries that I use over here, right? You guys, like all of you, are like I am. I'm assuming that all of you are aware with the standard libraries, if not, do let me know. So, let us pick any, but any stock out there and study its properties. Okay, so to begin with, I am taking a stock called TCS, which is an IT giant company in the. it is an IT giant in the Indian stock markets. Okay, so I am going to define the stock name, and then going to read the data, and what I see over here is I have - I have somewhere around five years of data that is starting from 2020 starting from first January 2515 to somewhere mid of 2020 so I have this five years worth of data for this particular instrument, which I am going to study now. Whenever we study any financial instrument, we need to study from multiple perspectives. The very first perspective that everyone of everyone of us are usually interested are in the returns, right. So that is what we see over here, like we need to study portfolio or any of their constituents from multiple perspectives, and those perspectives are returns and the risk. Okay, so we will start by analyzing the returns of the instrument that we have taken over here. Okay, and let's just understand that this particular instrument is the one which in which we are interested to invest in. Okay, so I am going to study the returns part of it. Okay, now when I want, when it comes to returns calculations, right, there are multiple kinds of returns that we can calculate.

Speaker 1  18:15  
The first being is the single period return. Now, single period return is basically a return that is produced or that is generated by the stock for a given period. It, the period could be a day, minute, week, month, at anything. Okay, as we are working with daily data over here, our single period returns would simply mean a single day return. Okay, so again, a pretty standard and the straightforward formula, so single period return would be sell price minus buy price divided by the buy price, so over here I am taking the last two days price, okay, and I am calculating the single period return by using the formula that shown here, okay. So the last day's single period return is almost 0% Okay, now if I want to calculate the single period return for the whole data, okay, for the whole data I could use percentage change, right, because this formula is nothing but the formula for the percentage change. I could use the percentage change, and I could see how the returns are generated for each period, and when I say each period, I mean each day, because my data is daily data set. Okay, so this is what we got over here as well. Okay, now see when it comes to portfolio management, usually whenever we study the historical data, we usually assume that that is the data or that is the duration during which we would have invested in, okay, during which we would have invested in, so. Ham, our data set starts from 2015 to mid of 2020 so this particular period is known as the holding period, which means that if we had held this particular stock from starting of 20 2050 at starting of 2015 to mid of 2020 what would be our returns or the risk metrics, right. So this is what we are discussing. So the very first is the single period return, and we saw, like, how do we, how do we calculate the single period return. The next one is the holding period returns, okay, which is like, which tells us that, okay, if we had held that particular stock from 2015 to mid 2020 what would be our cumulative returns? Right, what would be our cumulative returns? Just give me a moment, guys. Sorry, so what would be our cumulative returns, and the cumulative returns are defined as one plus r1 times one plus r2 times one plus r3 and so on all the way up to one plus r n. So to calculate the cumulative returns, all we do is we take the returns column, which is our single period return. We add one to it, and then we take the cumulative product of it. Pretty straightforward, right? So it tells me that if I had, if I had invested in this particular stock from 2015 to May 2020 the investment would have grown if I had invested $1 the invested would have grown to $2.05 and if I want to calculate the net returns, I simply need to subtract minus one from this number. Okay, and it tells me that, okay, your net holding period is net holding period return is 1.05 Okay, or in other words, it is 105% right? So this number is in decimal, that is why we say 1.05 If we convert in it to percentage, it would be 105% Okay, great. So these two, these two metrics that we see that we saw here, voting period returns, and the single period return only gives the glimpse of the how the particular instrument head would have performed, right? It doesn't tell me so over here with single period return, I could only get to know what what would have happened on a given day or in a given period? Okay, with holding period returns, I could only know, I could only know what's the where, what is the cumulative part like? Where did it end? Right, where did it end? But this met none of these metrics give me the idea about how would, how would have been the returns during the holding period. Okay, so, so this is the subtle difference.

Speaker 1  23:12  
Cumulative, cumulative returns tell me, like, what, where did the stock end, what is the final number that the stock produced, but it does not tell me, like, what would be the average return, or what would be the typical return during the holding period, during the period when I invested. What would be the typical return? I don't know that part, and to get that idea, to get the idea about what would be the typical return during the investable period. We need to compute two more statistics, which are arithmetic mean return and the geometric mean return. Okay, so arithmetic mean return is straightforward to compute. It is simply the average of the single period return. Okay, so r1 plus r2 plus r3 all the way up to R n. We sum them up, and then we divided by the, then we divided by the number of the days. So the arithmetic mean return simply tells us what would be the typical returns, or what would be the average return in a typical year? So, if I had invested some capital from 2015 to 2020 what would be the returns in a typical year, right? If the year is very normal, nothing major happened, what would be the returns? So that, so that idea we get using arithmetic mean return. The second kind of average returns, or the main return that we have, is the geometric mean return, also known as the CAGR, right, which stands for compound compounded annual growth rate. A CAGR is a number that tells us, or that accounts for compounding during the holding period, right. So the CAG number tells us, in a given year, what is the average return that I should expect, right? In a given year, what is the average amount of money earned that I should expect, and it is calculated as one plus cumulative return, given that this is net cumulative returns. Okay, one plus cumulative returns raised to the 252 by N, where N is the number of days we held stock for. Okay, minus one. So this year number that we get is the one that usually we see in any mutual fund or any investable product brochure, right. So, CAGR number is the one that usually funds publish, right. And now keep this in mind, whenever you, whenever you compute CAGR, you need to be consistent with its formula. Over here, the formula contains 252 which is basically the number of trading days in a year. Okay, it's a typical number of trading days in a year. Now, there are there are opinions about should we use 252 or 365 and the answer is we can use either, we can use either 252 or three 365 but whatever we use, we need to ensure that we are consistent with what we use. If we are using 252 we shall use 252 throughout, or else if you're using 365 we should be consistent with it, but we cannot compare the CAGR of an investment where the CAGR is computed by with 252 and another CAGR, which is computed using 365 Those two numbers are those two numbers are not comparable. Okay, great. Now, what should we use? So, if there exist two statistics that could tell us the typical returns in a typical year. What should we use, so whenever we, whenever we do, or whenever we perform any analysis. Okay, quantitative analysis, the industry practice is to use the arithmetic mean returns, simply because it is very straightforward to compute. Okay, that is first thing. However, however, when ever we want to publish numbers, okay, to investors or to stakeholders, the industry practice is to use CAGR. So, whenever we perform any analysis, we use arithmetic main returns, and whenever we want to publish numbers, we use CAGR, regardless, regardless of what you use, arithmetic mean returns or the CAGR. The inner the insights that you guys are going to get would be the same. Okay, so there is also mathematical relation between these two numbers. So, if I know arithmetic mean returns, I could convert it into geometric returns, like geometric returns, and if I know geometric returns, I could convert it into arithmetic mean returns. So, again, it doesn't make any difference whether we use, whether we use one or the another, right.

Speaker 1  28:46  
It's just the industry practice to use arithmetic mean return, because they are like quite easy to, not quite easy, they're straightforward to compute to. Okay, what I have done over here is I have created a function that produces these numbers, right? So it takes the returns data, okay, and it takes the stock name. Now, based on these two inputs, it will go ahead and it will generate the net cumulative returns, that is, that is what we discussed over, which is the holding period return, okay? Then it will compute the daily mean returns, and these are the this is the arithmetic mean return. Okay, this is the daily arithmetic mean return, which we then convert into annualized arithmetic mean returns over here by multiplying it with 252 and this function also computes the CAGR, or the geometric returns, by using the formula that I just showed you above. Okay, so this is the formula, which, which first takes the cumulative returns, net cumulative returns, and then the cumulative returns will be raised by the ratio of 250 trading at two. Two by N, okay, and N is the number of holding periods, okay. So, what I'm going to do, I'm going to create this function, I'm going to use this function again and again for multiple instruments, and this is what the function produces, like this is the output that the function produces. So, we see that the net cumulative returns for the TCS for this particular holding period, which is like 2015 to mid 2020 the cumulative returns are 105% Okay, arithmetic mean returns are 16% and the CAGR is almost 14% Right. Great. Now this is just one aspect of the analysis that we want to make. Okay, so we know that whenever we want to build a portfolio, we need to look from both angles, we need to look from multiple perspectives of returns and risk now, what happens is most of the time, most of the time there are investors who would usually compute the returns first, and then they would say that okay, this particular investor, this particular stock or a financial instrument has given stellar returns, right, so we don't care, like what, like we don't care about anything else. If the returns are really impressive, okay? We just want to go ahead, and we just want to invest into it. Now, being professionals, we ideally should not do that. We ideally need, we ideally should study from all the angles, and we should know, like, what are, like, where are the risk lies. Okay, so why it is important to study the risk, and why should, why should we not only be done away with the returns? The reason is very simple. Okay, the reason is very simple. Although we say that over here, this particular instrument gave the returns of 105% Okay, which by all the definitions is really good, amount is really good results, right? Like, in just like point half years, the stock doubled. Okay, in just five half year the stock doubled, which is really good, but only with returns, only with these two metrics. Okay, only with these two metrics. What we are not sure is that how does this number came up? Okay, what we are not sure is how does this number come up. In other words, what was the path taken by the stock to generate this much return? I repeat, my bad. I repeat, what was the path taken by the stock to generate this much return? Right now, it could mean that it could mean that, like, from the starting the stock would somewhere over here, and in fact it is over here, if you see, and then stroke all of a sudden rose like rise, and it posted 105% returns, right? Or it could mean that the stock was so wiggly. Okay, the stock was so wiggly, and eventually it rose over here. So we don't know just from these two metrics, which is the cumulative returns and the main returns. We don't know what path was taken by the instrument to produce this result, and that is where the study of the risk matrix really becomes important.

Speaker 1  33:45  
Okay, so the risk will tell us the risk matrix will tell us, in order to produce this much return, what was the path taken by the instrument, so that we know, so that we know, should we be going ahead with particular instrument or not? Right, so let us go and let us study the risk perspective, that is like how we can quantify the risk posted by a particular instrument. Okay, for risk part, there are two metrics or there are two statistics that we are going to use which are like by by which which are like which are the by far the most popular ones are the variance and the standard deviation okay so variance simply tells us like how much the daily period, how much the daily period return was spreaded away was spreaded around the mean. Okay, so variance tells us how much the daily period, daily period return. Or the single period return, right, are spread out from their mean. The way we calculate variance is we take the difference between the single period return and its mean, we square them up, and then we divide it by the number of holding period. Okay, so this particular formula computes the daily variance. Now, as you see over here, once you take the difference between the single period return and its mean, we square them up. Okay, we square them up, and hence the output that we are going to get would also be the squared one, so this is the squared result. Is the variance is the squared term, is the variance is the squared term. Variance is a unit less term, right? So again, it's I know it's debatable topic, so someone would say it's not. It is not the unit list term. The unit is simply the squared. Yeah, that's true, but the squared unit usually does not make sense in our field. Okay, so our single period returns are usually in the percentage, right? Our single period returns are usually in the form of percentage. If we square the percentage, the variance would be in terms of percentage squared. Now, there is no, there is no interpretation of percentage squared, or there is no literal meaning of what do we mean by percentage squared. So, in a way, I understand, or I think of variance as a unit less term. Okay, I think of variance as a unit less term. Now, what is variance? Variance is very simple. It's simply the - it simply quantifies how large the single period returns spread out from its mean. The larger the spread, the higher the variance, the smaller the spread, the lower the variance. Okay, and if the spread of the single period return from their mean is wider, which means the stock was moving quite a bit, the stock was wiggling quite a bit, and hence there there was high volatility out there, okay? If the single period returns were around their main and the spread was quite low, the variance was the variance would be low, and as a result, we would say that the price was not moving much, it was wiggling, or yeah, it was wiggling just around the mean, and if we had invested in that particular instrument, it would not have been that risky, right? So we quantify risk using the variance. Variance is computed simply by taking the single period return and its difference from the mean squared, the difference square the difference, and divide it by the divide, the sum of all the differences by the number of holding period. Okay, that gives us the variance. Variance is a squared term, or in other words, this is how I understand that it is a unitless term. Okay, so if I tell you this, okay, if I tell you variance of TCS, for example, is say, for example, is let's say is percentage squared, would this make, would this make any sense? Not really, right. So, this number is really not interpretable. So, if I go ahead, and if I tell someone that, okay, you know, the variance of TCS talk is this much, okay? So, they would say, okay, we don't understand what percentage squared is. We don't understand this number at all. This number is not interpretable, right? So, to get away with this issue, all we do is, is this is the percentage squared term, okay?

Speaker 1  39:17  
Or is this the squared term? We simply take the square root of it. We simply take the square root of it, and it becomes a standard deviation. Okay, it becomes the standard deviation. So, standard deviation is nothing but the square root of the variance, and when I take the square root of this particular term, it becomes the standard deviation. Okay, standard deviation. deviation of TCS. So, if I say the standard deviation of TCS, I'm just making up the numbers, or it doesn't mean they're actually the same. Say 1% okay? So, it says that, okay, standard deviation of TCS is point 11% H, which means that, okay, it's point 11 or 11 percentage 0.65 or 61 point 45 this way, okay, so if I say that, if I, if I say it's 11 percentage, then it starts making sense, right? People would say that, okay, if the standard deviation is 11 percentage, which means that the stock is likely to move 11% in a given year, regardless of the regardless of the direction, so this is how we interpret these numbers. Okay, now likewise the arithmetic mean return and the geometric mean return, we use variance for all our analysis purpose, so whenever we analyze any anything, we use variance, right, and whenever we want to produce numbers or present some numbers to the investors or the stakeholders, we use standard deviation. Now, why do we, why do we do this? Because of the reason that we just discussed over here, because standard deviation is pretty interpretable number, okay. Whereas the variance is not right, so whenever we perform any analytical activity, we use variance to perform all in all and all activities, right. But whenever we want to present these numbers to the stakeholders or the investors, then we use standard deviation. Right now, why do we do this now? For arithmetic mean returns in the geometric mean returns, we discussed that geometric mean returns, like just how the standard deviation is interpretable. The geometric mean return is more like interpretable, but so does the arithmetic mean return also. Okay, but that is not the case here, right? That is not the case here. The case here is like variance, although the variance is not interpretable. Okay, what if I say that instead of giving you only variance of single instrument, if I give you variance of, let's say, multiple instruments, right? And if I say that the variance of coal pulse is 45 and 13 percentage squared, whereas it was 65 point 61 point 45 percentage squared for TCS. Now it starts making sense, right? When you have variances of multiple numbers, multiple instruments, you can compare those numbers by only these two numbers without converting them into standard deviation, you, you can clearly say that Kolpal is going to be a low risk stock compared to TCS. Okay, because the variance is smaller over here. So variance in US variance is a standalone number is not interpretable, but when we have multiple variances, they are comparable. Okay, so this is one of the properties of the variance, and the another property of the variance is that variance is additive. Okay, so if I am building a portfolio of multiple constituents, and if I want to know, like, what, what would be my, what would be the total portfolio of the variance of total total volatility of the portfolio, I could go and simply add those variances up. Okay, I cannot do that with standard deviation, I cannot add standard deviation. Okay, that would be mathematically incorrect. I could add variances of multiple instruments in a normal course of life, and that would be it, right? So, for these two reasons, because the variance is additive and the variance is comparable, we use variance for all analytical activity, and whenever we want to produce numbers, we use standard deviation, right. Great, so I have generated a similar function over here, which I, which I did for the return spot. So this particular function takes the same input, returns data, and the stock name, and I, and it produces the variance and the standard deviation on both on both axis, which is the daily and the annualized, right. So first I compute the variance using the built-in formula using the built-in function, and then I multiplied by the 252 to get the n. Variance, okay.

Speaker 1  45:00  
Likewise, I compute the standard deviation, which is the daily standard deviation, and then I compute, multiplied with the square root of 252 to get the annual standard deviation. Okay, and if I go ahead and if I compute it, so this is what I see. Okay, the daily variance is this much. This is the annual variance. Now, annual variance is, as I mentioned, it is a percentage squared term. So, again, we cannot write any such term over here. So, we convert it into the standard deviation, and the standard deviation is 24.96 on an annualized term. What I'm doing over here is that I am creating a data frame that will hold the standard deviation that will hold the returns in the risk profile of all the instruments that we are going to study. Okay, so likewise, like this wise, so these are the arithmetic mean returns, and this is the annualized volatility. So, what it simply means is that in order to earn 16% a year, we need to take the risk of almost 25% a year, right? So, this is what we see over here, and this is what we conclude. So we say that investing in a single stock is risky. Now this is usually the moment of truth for many investors, as and when they study the risk part of any instrument, and when they, when they find that, okay, the investing in a particular or a single investment is way far riskier than what the returns it produces, they would usually back off, and they would usually say that, okay, this is not something that works for us, okay. So, but again, that is the, that is what that is, how the human psychology works, okay, audit play. Excuse me, guys.

Speaker 2  47:07  
So that is how

Speaker 1  47:13  
human psychology at play. So, but what we do is like for the goal that we have defined, let's do one thing. Let us say that we intend to build a portfolio. We intend to build a portfolio that gives at least 16.6% returns. Okay, we build returns to us because in a, in a, in a normal course of routine, 16% returns on an annualized terms is no bad thing, right? Like, again, many, many good funds don't are not able to produce this much return. Okay, but what we are not comfortable here is, is with this number, although we would want to have a portfolio that produces this much return, but we don't want to have like really huge volatility, right? We don't have, we don't want to have 25% of volatility, so although we are happy with the return spot, we are not happy with the risk part, right? So, what can be done? So, what, like, what is the next step that one should take, so that we could target this much return, but with much lower risk. Okay, so the natural step would be to invest in another, another stock, right? So, if a particular stock.. excuse me, guys, my throat is not actually at its 100% capacity. Sorry. So, although I have an instrument that gives me really good returns, but I am not happy with its volatility part right, so the next, the natural step for me would be to analyze another stroke and see, like, if that stock gives me similar results, similar returns is the previous talk, but with a lower volatility, or how, right? So to do that, to do that, I'm going to pick up another instrument, which is Whose ticker is Maruti, which is an automobile giant in the Indian stock market, and I'm going to download the data for the same duration, which like from 2015 to mid 2020 and I'm going to compute the risk and the returns profile for the same instrument. Okay, so over here this is how the returns would look like for the same duration. Okay, and see the cumulative returns here are 126% which was 105% in the previous instrument. Okay, the annualized. Returns are 19% for TCS. It was 16.67% Okay, now let me go here. So, what I see over here is that the annualized arithmetic mean returns have increased over here, right? And so does my wisdom say that is the returns would have increased as the returns would have increased, the volatility should increase. Okay, it does not necessarily mean that it, it will increase, but it should increase, right? So, and that is what we see here. The annualized standard deviation is 30% Okay, so if I add it to the comparison data frame, this is what I see. This is what I see. That okay, is the arithmetic mean returns increased? The word it also increased, right? So this simply confirms the age old adage or age old saying that higher the risk, higher the returns, and this is what we see over here, right. So, yeah, this is what this is what the result of the Maruti instrument is, and what we see over here is like, although it is matching our return spot, excuse me, although it is matching our hidden spot, it is on the risk part. It is much worse, right? It is much worse. We wanted to have an instrument that could give us at least this much return, which it is giving, but we would, we were targeting a much lower volatility, which in this case is not right. So, although it is giving, although it is satisfying on the risk part, it is not satisfying on the volatility part. Okay, so investing in the another instrument also did not work. So, what shall we do? Okay, so what shall we do now? we can think for a moment, and we would say that instead of investing in TCS and Maruti on its own, what if we go ahead and what if we build a portfolio? Okay, instead of investing in investing my whole capital in TCS or Maruti, why don't I go ahead and why don't I invest in both and create a portfolio, and then that will study the risk and the returns profile, and we'll see, like, whether that gives me what I intend to get right, so this is what returns we are targeting.

Speaker 1  52:44  
Okay, returns less than 24% is what targeting, right? So this is what we are targeting. So, okay, perfect. So, let us go ahead and let us build the portfolio, right? So, the observation, yep, as the annual returns increased, the volatility also increased, so please pay attention over here, guys. This is the this is going to be the core of the lecture, wherein we will learn and understand how the portfolios are being built. How do we calculate the returns and the risk part of the portfolio, the volatility of the portfolio? And once we learn this, we are, we are going to use these concepts again and again, again and again towards the until the end of this class. Okay, so to build a portfolio again, as we, as we, as we are studying the two parts, the risk part and the returns part, right? So, as I mentioned, regardless of whether it's a portfolio or a single instrument, we always look for these two aspects, right, the returns and the risk, right. So, if we are to build a portfolio, let's say we invest 50% in TCS and 50% in Maruti. If we, if I do that, how do I calculate the return of such a portfolio? How do I calculate the return of such a portfolio to calculate the returns of a part returns of a portfolio? All I can do is I can take the weighted sum of the returns. Okay, let me repeat, I can take the weighted sum of the returns, wherein W A is the amount I invest in stock A, or the weight of stock A, right, R A is the returns of stock A, W B is. Weight of stock B and RB is the weight of is the return of stock B right, so portfolio returns are simply nothing but the weighted sum of the individual constituents returns right, so let me go ahead and let me build that over here, right, so I am defining the weights vector over here now, weight vector again for this toy portfolio. I am going to use the equal location approach, which is like 50% 50% in both instruments. Then I am going to take the annual arithmetic mean returns of both stocks, and then I am going to simply compute the weighted sum using the NP dot dot library NP dot dot function. Okay, and this is what we get. This is what we get. Now, what if we help the Sorry, excuse me. Okay, what if we have a portfolio with more than two instruments? Right, what we.. what if we have a portfolio with 10 instruments? In that case, this formula still remains, still stays the same. It just expands. Okay, in that case, the portfolio return would become the weighted sum of returns until stock end. Okay, so wa times ra plus w b times W B times R B all the way up to W N R N, right? And we sum the weighted returns of all the individual constituents, and then sum them up. Okay, this is how we get the portfolio returns with N constituents. Pretty straightforward, right. Let me see if there are any questions. Okay. When to rebuild his portfolio. Why don't you use PCA to assign weight to a stock portfolio? Okay, yeah. So all these are like really good. So someone also says, like, why don't we use inverse volatility? Yeah, the all these are like really good pointers when we know how to build portfolios, right? And these pointers usually kick in when we are optimizing the portfolio at this point that at this point in time we are building the portfolio so once we know how to build portfolios we can go ahead and we can discuss like what are the different method methodologies that one can use to optimize the weights of the portfolio, which we will eventually do towards the end of this class. Okay, so just see here, we could use inverse volatility, or we could use the other guys mentioned, like we could use PCA.

Speaker 1  58:11  
Yep, so there are just like a host of ideas out there, which we can use to optimize the weights, and that is again one of the key pointers that I usually see among the portfolio managers who build long-term portfolios, that they usually, they usually focus on the weights optimization rather than the other aspect of the portfolio, so that is also what we are going to discuss in the due course of the time, right. Cool, thanks guys. Okay, so coming to competition of the volatility of a portfolio, so please pay attention over here, guys. This is like one of the core aspects of what is happening, and how do we calculate the portfolio volatility? And this was one of the aspects by which the gentleman named Harry Markowitz got its Nobel Prize. Okay, so this is going to be the core, and once you understand this, the rest of the class should be quite easy to follow. Okay, great. Now, when it comes to computation of portfolio volatility, right, the very first thing that comes to our mind is that why don't we go ahead and why don't we take the weighted average, not the average, the weighted sum of the individual variances. Why don't we like the way we are computing the portfolio returns? Why don't we use the same way to compute the portfolio variances? Okay, so if we are to do that, if we are to compute the portfolio, we. Variance, the way we are computing the portfolio returns, we could say that, okay, the portfolio variance would be the weighted variances of stock A plus weighted variance of the stock B, right, and within some of sum them up, we need to take the square root of weight, because the variance is the square term. Okay, so this is nothing but the weighted variances of the individual individual constituents, and people were following this formula until 1950s Okay, people were calculating their portfolio variances just by taking the weighted variances of all the individual individual constituents, and then summing them up. Okay, it was running all good and fine. Then this gentleman, known as Mahari Markowitz, in his paper called as modern portfolio theory, which is, which was then published in the 1952 I believe he published, and he argued that, like, while calculating the portfolio volatility, while calculating the portfolio volatility, we cannot simply take the weighted sum of the individual variances, we can still do this, but this is the this does not capture the whole essence of the portfolio. Okay, he argued that just by taking the weighted variances, the weighted sum of the variances, we doesn't, we do not get the whole aspect of the portfolio. Why? Because it could happen that it could happen that there could be constituents in our portfolio. There could be constituents over in our portfolio where if one instrument falls, the other could rise. Okay, if the other could rise. If one instrument could rise, the other could follow, right? Not follow, fall, my bad. So, the idea is, he said that there could be instrument in the portfolio with inverse relationship, right, and as a result, to get the actual idea of the portfolio variances, to get the actual idea of the portfolio volatility, we need to account for the relationship between those constituents in the portfolio. Okay, the proposal that he made was in order to get the actual volatility of the portfolio, we need to account for these relationships among the constituents of the portfolio, and then we take them into account, in addition to the weighted sum of the portfolio variances, right. So, what he proposed was, is constituents usually have some kind of relationships among each other. Okay, because of the cash flows, if the cash flow goes more into one stock, the other might receive less, and vice versa. Because of these relationships, the returns usually have, usually have some patterns, and while calculating the portfolio volatility, one need to take in account the relationship between the constituents of the portfolio, in addition to the weighted sum of the individual variances, that is what he proposed, and it turned out to be that it actually gives much more cleaner portfolio variance. Okay, and so the formula was revised, and the formula then became extended, and now we compute, or now we include this covariance part.

Speaker 1  1:04:04  
So, this covariance is basically the covariance, simply tells us how do these two instruments relate to each other, right? So, you guys, you guys would have learned covariances in your basic statistics class, and you know that to compute like to what degree the instruments to what degree the instruments I'd say the value of the instruments increase or decrease, right? We can compute covariance. Okay, so what we do over here, we calculate the portfolio variance by taking the weighted sum of the individual variances plus the covariance over here. Okay, so this. Covariance between stroke and stroke B, which simply shows the, or which simply accounts for the relationship between the constituents returns, right? And also, of course, we need to, as we are taking, considering the covariance between two returns, we also need to take the weighted covariance, and not the simple, like simply the covariance, right. So we are taking the weighted covariance now. Why we are taking the covariance two times, so we are considering the relationship between stroke A and B, which we get using covariance of stroke A and stroke B. And then we also need to take into account the covariance between Stoke B and Stoke A. Okay, so which is going to be the same thing, and as a result we are considering this covariance part two times over here, right? And this is how the portfolio variance is calculated, and we know, like, if you want to convert the variance into volatility, all we do is like we take the square root of it. Okay, so if I go ahead and if I substitute all those numbers, this is how the formula would become. So this is the, this is, this is going to be my final formula. So let me go ahead and let me try to build this formula. Okay, so these are the annual variances of this is in Maruti. The formula to compute the covariance is given here. Okay, it is simply the sum of the squares of the differences between the returns and their means. Okay, so to calculate the covariance in Python, we simply can use the numpy library over here, and that is what we are doing. So, that will give us the daily covariance, right? And this is what we have. So, what you see over here is the is something known as the variance covariance matrix. Okay, what you see over here is known as the variance covariance matrix. So, over here on this term, this is the covariance between TCS and Maruti. Okay, this is the covariance between TCS and Maruti, and this is the covariance between Maruti and TCS. So, what we see over here, we see the covariance terms. This is the covariance between TCS and Maruti, and this is the covariance between Maruti and TCS. And as we see, both are both these terms are one and the same. Okay, both these terms are one and the same. Another interesting thing to note over here is when we compute variance covariance matrix using np.co function. Okay, using np.co function we get this matrix. Okay, and in this matrix we also get to see the covariance between TCS and TCS. Okay, and the covariance between Maruti and Maruti, so this is the covariance between TCS and TCS, and this is the covariance between Maruti and Maruti. So this is what we also get to see. I will come to this part in the moment. Okay, but this is what we see, just keeping the, just keep the, keep this in the mind. We see over here the covariance between both instruments, that is TCS and Maruti, over here and Maruti and TCS, and at the same time we see the covariance between TCS and TCS and Maruti and Maruti. Right. Great. Okay. Once we complete the covariance. I am extracting the covariance value, which is going to be this particular value, right. And now I go ahead and I substitute everything in the formula that we have created above, right. I know this is a bit messy formula, but yeah, this is what it is. So I am going to go ahead and put it in the formula and going to compute the portfolio volatility. Okay, so this is a standard deviation, because we have already applied the NP dot square root over here.

Speaker 1  1:09:10  
So this is the standard deviation, or the portfolio volatility of portfolio with TCS and Maruti in equal proportion. Okay, great, but now as you guys might have a guest, like this formula is only for a portfolio with two constituents. What if we have three instruments or four instruments in my portfolio? If that is the case, the formula would simply expand by that degree. Okay, the formula would simply expand by that degree, and the formula would become really messy. The formula would become really messy. Okay, so what? What if there could be some shortcut way to calculate the portfolio volatility? So again. Over here, the way we computed the portfolio volatility was by using the first principles. We discussed the like how the portfolio variance was calculated before the modern portfolio theory concepts were invented. Then we went ahead and we revised our formula over here, and then we substituted the formula, so we built our formula using the first principles, right, but over here we see that these are like really, this is really messy, and if we have multiple constituents in the portfolio, the volatility could go, the formula could go haywire, right, and we could, it would be, it would be very challenging to have the correct formula right, so what we can do is we can convert the formula that we saw here, we can convert this formula that we saw here into the vector and matrices approach, okay, into the vector and matrices approach, so let us go ahead and let us understand my right, and so let us go ahead and let us understand how that works. Okay, great. Now, before I do that, no, let me do, let me go ahead and let me directly explain, so that it would be clear over here, right? So, using the vector vector matrices approach the formula becomes really neat and easy. Okay, so we need two things: first, the weights, the weights of the individual constituents, which we already have defined over here, yeah, right. See, these are the weights. So, these are the weights that we have already defined over here. So, we say in TCS we are going to invest 50% In Maruti, we are going to invest 50% right. Then, what we have here in the middle is the variance covariance matrix. We just explain, we just discussed what is this covariance covariance matrix. So, over here, variance covariance matrix shows us the covariance between TCS and Maruti, and Maruti and DCS, and they both are one in the same. Okay, this part over here is the covariance between TCS and TCS, okay, which in turn is the variance of the TCS. Okay, which in turn is a variance of TCS. So let me write it over here. Let me write it over here. Covariance of TCS and TCS equals to variance of TCS. Okay, likewise, covariance of Maruti and Maruti is going to be the variance of Maruti, right? And that is why this particular matrix is known as variance covariance matrix. Okay, I am still writing over here, so if I want to simplify, okay, I could say that the covariance of x and x becomes the variance of x. Okay, so this is something that you need to keep in mind, which we will require going further. Okay, so this is the variance of TCS, and this is the variance of Maruti. So we have two inputs: weights and variance covariance matrix. Now to calculate the portfolio variance. Now to continue the portfolio variance, which we were, which we were doing over here using this formula, so instead of this formula, all we can do is we can use this vector vector matrices approach on over here we take the weights vector over here, okay, and then multiply the weights vector, multiply the weights vector that we have over here with the variance covariance matrix, right. Once we multiply the weights vector with the variant with the variance covariance matrix, whatever the output is, whatever the output is, we again multiply that output with the transpose of the weight vector. Now, when I say transpose, transpose is simply converting row into columns, okay? Or converting the row vector into column vector. So this is what we do, and by just by doing this, we will get the portfolio variance, and to get the portfolio standard volatility.

Speaker 1  1:14:43  
Sorry, to get the portfolio volatility, we simply take the square root of the portfolio variance, right? So, if we do this, our approach becomes really neat and scalable, right? So, portfolio volatility over here, this is. The weights of the portfolio, these are the variance and covariances of the portfolio constituents. We take the dot product of it, and whatever the output is, we again then take the dot product of the output and the transposed vector, right? And that this will give us the portfolio variance. Okay. Now, why this approach is recommended, because it's neat, first thing, and second it is scalable. So now, instead of two, if I have what? What if I have three instruments in my portfolio? The approach remains the same. Okay, the approach remains the same. So over here I have three constituents in a portfolio. I have variance covariance matrix of the three instruments, right. And then I simply can take the dot product of a portfolio, dot product of the weight, and the variance covariance matrix, and whatever the output is, and whatever the output is, I multiply them with the transposed weight vector, and then I will get the portfolio variance. Okay, once I get the portfolio variance, I can convert it into the volatility by taking the square root of the portfolio variance, right? Simple enough. So, let me go ahead, let me implement it, and then take some questions. Okay, so this is this is what we got from the first principles. Now let me go ahead and let me define, or let me compute the portfolio standard way portfolio variance using matrices approach. Okay, so I am defining the weight vector over here, then I already have these variance covariance matrix above computed over here, I'm just going to take the dot product of the dot product of weights and various variance covariance matrix, whatever the output is. I am going to again take the output product of the weights vector in the transposed form with the output of the previous operation, right? And that will give me the portfolio variance. Once I get the portfolio variance, I can convert it into the standard deviation, or the volatility by taking the square root. This is what we have over here, and this is what we got, right. Okay, great. So, if I add it over here, I can basically see that we have been able to reduce down the portfolio volatility less than what we were aiming for. So, we were aiming for the returns 16% over here, which we ticked, which we ticked over here. Yeah, so yeah, this is ticked right. And did we are we able to achieve volatility less than 24% Yes, this is what we achieved over here, 21% Okay. so this is also ticked now. If that's the case, if that's the case. Okay, what else could we do now before we answer? What else could we do? Let me go ahead and let me see the questions, and then we shall go ahead. Okay, Archit, I believe this is now clear. Like, how does this work for more than two stocks? If it is not, do let me know. Yeah, Himanshu. I just answered, like, how does this particular approach work in more than two parts, like for more than two instruments, Shreyas, how to select various constituents of the portfolio. We will answer that part after the break. Great, thanks, Vishal. What would be the portfolio variance formula for more than two stocks? Yeah, crucial. So, yeah, I believe, guys, you like most of the, like most of them, you have the have these like same question, so I hope this other question has been answered. If not, do let me know. So, Carlos says, like, this is MVO portfolio optimization. So, again, Carlos, we haven't discussed the MVO part yet. Eventually, we are going to do that part. That's true, right? Are there any, are there any other approaches for portfolio optimization? There are, there are many, there are many, right, like maximizing Shaper ratio. So, optimization, we will be taking after the break now, right. We will be optimizing the portfolio from multiple angles, not just the weights, but we are going to also see and understand how do we select the number of constituents and whatnot. But yeah, so you are correct, this is this is leading to the MVO, okay?

Speaker 1  1:19:58  
But we haven't reached the. Yet, which we are going to do after the break. Okay, so are there any more questions, or whatever we have discussed until now are clear? If the things are clear, can you please press one? Else, put in your question, do The portfolio returns lies between TCS and Maruti return, but the annual vote is below the individual. Yeah, that's true. That is true. And the answer lies, why this is the case, is because if you see how the how the portfolio variance formula is the answer lies in the portfolio variance. Why this number is not between 24 and 30, and why it is below 24 Okay, Himanshu, please wait for the like, we will eventually come to the that part wherein we decide, like, how do we decide the volatility part, but please wait until that part. Okay, so if things are clear, let's take a break early today. And after the break, we will come back, and we will start discussing the multiple optimization things. Okay, great. So we shall return on my screen at 532 right. Great, so All right, so I hope you guys had the good brother. Can someone quickly confirm if I'm audible? It would be great if someone can ping on the chat and confirm I am audible. Okay, thanks. So let us go back to where we have left, so So over here before we went to the break, we discussed the how we shall analyze instruments or portfolio from risk and the returns perspective. Okay, how we can analyze both those profiles, and what are the various metrics, or what are the various statistics that we should, we shall be using to analyze those profiles. Okay, in the process, we also learned how do we build portfolio, how do we, how do we compute the portfolio returns for a portfolio consider considering of n instruments, not just two. And then we also learned about computing portfolio variances using two two approaches, the first using the first principles, and then using the matrices approach right now, also using the matrices approach, we saw like how we get the same number and how it is scalable to end constituents. Okay, that is what we learned and discussed before we went to the break. Now the discussion that we were having, okay, with respect to the maximum returns and the minimum risk, we have achieved to, we have achieved that to an extent that, okay, we were aiming to build a portfolio which could generate returns as, as much as TCS, but with volatility lower than the one we had with TCS, and just by building the portfolio of two stocks with TCS and Maruti, we have been able to do that. That's, that's really good, but what we also now know that that we humans are, we humans are pretty, we are the greedy animals, right. So now that if I know, like by building the portfolio, I can go ahead and I can reduce the volatility, I can lower down the volatility. Now the, the greater part, the grittier part in me says that okay, what if I can bring down this number to a certain extent? Okay, in other words, the greedy human in me says that if I know that by just by building the portfolio, if I can bring down this number, okay, what. What else can I do? What else can I do, such that I can bring down this number further. Okay, such that I can bring down this number further. Now to answer that part, to answer that part, we need to revisit the portfolio variance formula. Okay, we need to revisit the portfolio variance formula, which says that, like, if I want to bring down this number, okay, what else can I do? What else can I do such that I can bring down the portfolio variance further down? Okay, so if I, if I study the formula, all I see over here is like these are the weights that I can change, but let's say for the moment I don't want to change these weights. Okay, then what else are we left with? Then we are left with the individual variances of the constituents.

Speaker 1  1:35:54  
Now, in the, if the individual variances of the constituents are the market-generated properties, and we don't have any control over them, so we cannot change even any of these market-generated variances of these constituents, right? So this part is pretty much non-changeable, like we cannot do anything over here. Then only part that we are left with is this part. Okay, so which we say that which says that okay, we cannot change weight, or else say we don't want to change the weights as of as of now. For us, the equal location is the one that we should be going, we shall be going with for now. So we cannot change this part as well over here. What I see is that if somehow, if somehow I can bring covariance number down, if somehow I can bring covariance number down, I shall be able to bring down the whole portfolio variance number. Okay, so I did this activity. I did this activity over here. I built the portfolio, and by building the portfolio, I observed that the volatility reduced from 30 to 21 Okay, now this awakes a greedier person in me and says that if I can build a portfolio and it reduces the portfolio volatility significantly down, what else can I do such that I can lower down this number further? Okay, so if I want to do that, I need to go back to the portfolio variance formula. I need to take a look at here, and I see, like, what if there are any variables in here which can be changed or which could be lowered down, and I see that most of them are market-generated variables, but one thing, one thing that I can do is I can, if I can bring down covariance number, okay, I could reduce the overall portfolio volatility. Now, so let us go ahead and let us pay attention to the COVID covariance spotlight. So, if I can bring down the covariance, I could go ahead and I could bring down the portfolio variance further down. Okay, now we know that the covariance is a, is a mathematical statistic, or is a method is a statistical metric that tells us how two variables move together, right? So, covariance is a statistic that tells us how two variables move together, the larger it moves, the stronger it moves together, the higher the covariance value, and the, and if there is no stronger co-movement together, the covariance value would be bit low. Okay, so covariance is an unbounded value. We cannot use cova like again. Covariance is pretty, like pretty much like variance, pretty much like variance. Covariance is also unbounded and unprettable, uninterpretable at the moment, so if I say covariance between a and b is this much, right, it doesn't tell me what exactly this number is, right, but if I tell you that, but if I tell you that the covariance between A and C is you, you instantly see that the stroke A and C over here they are. Are they don't move together, okay? Where in the core of the stock A and B, they move together a lot, and as a result, their covariance is the covariance value is very high, okay? And the stocks A and C don't move much together, and hence their co-variance value is a bit lower, right. So, covariance, just like variance, if it is given in as a standard number, is not much interpretable, but whenever we have multiple covariances, it becomes instantly comparable. Okay, now just like covariance is not interpretable, just like variance. What other option do we have? So, for variance, do we can convert the variance into standard deviation, and it becomes interpretable. So, for covariance, what it is that to which we can convert, and it becomes interpretable. So, that matrix, or that statistics, is the correlation. Okay, so correlation is the metric that takes in covariance and makes it standardized, such that it moves between plus one to negative, like positive one to negative one, and when someone says, when someone says that correlation between A and B is 15. Okay, we certainly see that the covariance between A and feet is 15% Okay, so it becomes instantly interpretable.

Speaker 1  1:41:36  
So, just like my bet, this is correlation, so Okay, so correlation between A and B is 15% and covariance is not interpretable, just like how we have very variance in standard deviation. Okay, so what we do here is we say that we are anticipating that if we can bring down the covariance value, we could bring down the portfolio variance as a whole. Okay, but covariance again, working with direct covariances, is not that interpretable, is not that likely to gel with, so we take correlation instead of covariance, and the formula for the correlation is covariance divided by the sum of standard deviations of x and y. Okay, so if I go ahead and if I print the correlation, I see that the correlation between the TCS and Maruti is 25% Okay, so now I know that if I can bring the, like, if I can bring in a constituent in my portfolio whose correlation between the constituents is less than 25% okay, is less than 25% my co-variance value would be much lower. Okay, my covariance value would be much lower, and as a result, the portfolio variance would be much lower. Okay, I repeat, over here I see that the correlation between this is in Maruti is 25% Now, if I bring in a portfolio constituents in my portfolio whose correlation value is less than 25% I know that the resultant core covariance value would be much lower than the existing one, and as a result my overall portfolio variance would go down, so that is what we are going to do now. So now I am going to bring in the third instrument in my portfolio, the third constituent in my portfolio, and I am going to replace it with the existing one. So this time I am going to bring Merico, it's an FMCG giant in the IT industry in the Indian markets, okay, and I'm going to read data for the same duration, which is from 2020 2015 to mid 2020 Okay, let me quickly compute the cumulative returns and the and the returns metrics. Right, so what we see over here, it is giving 150 2% and it's annualized main returns at 20% Okay, so it is very similar profile to what we have other two constituents in the portfolio, right? And this is the annual standard deviation that we have over here. Okay, excuse me. So now, if I compute the correlation between stock one, which happens to be TCS, and stock three, which is the medical, okay? And if I find that, and if I find that the correlation between. TCS and medical, okay. Stoke one and three is less than the correlation between TCS and Maruti, which is stock one and two. Okay, then if I go ahead and if I compute or if I create a portfolio between stock one and three, the portfolio was a degree that I should get should be lower. Okay, so let me go ahead and let me compute the correlation, and I see over here the correlation is just half of the earlier one, right? It's just 11.9% The correlation between TCS and Maruti was 25% Over here it's just 11.9% So what I'm going to do now is I'm going to build another portfolio between TCS and Merico. Okay, between TCS and Merico, I am replacing Merico, so I'm replacing Maruti with Merico. See, right over here we got the expected annual returns of 18% Why? Because the annualized returns are 20% over here, and for TCS it was somewhere around 16% So we got 18% which is still meeting our target, and if I now go, I expect here the volatility to be lower than the previous one. Why? Because this time the correlation is just half of what we had earlier. Okay, but still it, the volatility will not go, will not be halved. Okay, why? Because if you, if you see over here, the annual standard deviation of the medical is 26% whereas it was, whereas it was of the similar in the Maruti as well. So let me go ahead and let me compute the portfolio volatility between TCS and Merico. Okay, and see this time it reduced to 19% Okay, and if we, if we plot it here, if we plot it here, this is what we see, right? This is what we see.

Speaker 1  1:47:10  
So Maruti had annualized volatility of 30% Merico head 26% Okay, and if we bid the portfolio right, whose correlation is much, much lower over here, right, between TCS and Maruti and TCS Merico. We get the results does not diminish, but the volatility does. Okay, so what this activity shows us is that this activity shows us if we have uncorrelated securities in our portfolio, we can reduce the portfolio volatility overall. Okay, so over here the green colored bars shows the portfolio, sorry, shows the volatility, and the till colored bar shows the returns, okay, and what we see over here is by TCS and Maruti had very different yet similar risk and returns profile, but when we built the portfolio of TCS and Maruti, right, we without losing much on the return spot, we have been able to bring down the risk part, the volatility part, right. And then when we introduced, and when we replaced Maruti with Merico, which had the similar, which had the similar risk and the returns profile, we have been able to bring down the volatility further down. Okay, so the key takeaway from this activity is that our portfolio should hold uncorrelated securities. Okay, great. Let me check if there are any questions. If there are, let me take them, and then I will go ahead and I will answer them. Okay, can you use the greedy approach to optimize the weights again? See, that's how usual, that's how usually the people are, right? But if you use a greedy approach, we, as we shall see, as we shall see, it doesn't always work, okay. And it also works to an extent, okay. Bye. I'm really having, like, sorry. How to pick volatility based volatility based on market? How to pick volatility based on market, no. So we cannot tweak volatility based on market, but what we can do is we can, we cannot tweak volatility based on market, but what we can do is that we can, based on the changes in the market, we can change the constituency, the portfolio. Okay, so. Oh, so someone says, like, why and how did you select TCS Marutin Marico? So, yeah, as I mentioned, I just picked them up because I did not have any starting point to start with. So, for me, it was any point, like, I just picked up anything that I, I was interested in. So, there was no particular reason why did I select only TCS, Maruti, and Marico? No, this chart should, should have contained standard and medical. Yeah, yeah. So, again, so this is the feedback that I get in all classes. So, I haven't even, like, built a portfolio of Maruti and Marico. So, this is usually a keep to the keep to the students that they should be doing that part. Okay, great. Now, now that we know how to build portfolios, let us go ahead and let us try to answer these three questions. Okay? Like, what universe of assets are we going to use to be the portfolio? How many constituents, and in what proportion, so before we do that, before we do that, as we saw that by introducing, as we saw here, that by introducing the uncorrelated constituent in my portfolio, I could bring down the portfolio volatility, the greedy person in me again says that why don't you go ahead and why don't you add the third uncorrelated security to this portfolio and bring down the volatility further down, right? The greedy person in me still says that if you know that you can do this, why don't you do that. So what if now the question that we need to answer is like to what extent can we really keep adding instrument to our portfolio such that it keeps lowering down the volatility. Okay, the question that we now, that we are now trying to answer is the question that we are now trying to answer is that how many constituents should that we should keep on adding that we should keep on adding in our portfolio such that the volatility comes down keeps on reducing and if that happens, like, how many instruments do we really want in our portfolio, such that we can bring volatility down, like, down to zero. Okay, so these are these are the two questions that we need to now answer.

Speaker 1  1:52:35  
First, if I know that I could add uncorrelated securities in my portfolio, that will bring down the portfolio volatility. Why don't I do that? And if I do that, how many instruments or how many constituents should I keep on adding such that the volatility comes down to zero? Okay, so let us go ahead and let us study that part. Okay. Okay, so that is what I have mentioned over here. Diversification helped us in reducing the portfolio, portfolio volatility. Yes, that is true. At the same time, have we achieved our goal? Yes, we have. But now the another question that we need to ask is, how many constituents that we can really keep adding to the portfolio, such that the portfolio keeps on lowering down. Okay, so what time is I will be running a simple to demonstrate this. I am going to read the constituents of the Nifty Index. Nifty is a broad-based index in the Indian markets. It has got 50 constituents, and these are, and these are those constituents. I am going to download data from 2018 to end of 2023 Okay, once I have the down, once I have the data with me, once I have the data with me, I am going to compute the single period returns for all those 50 instruments. Okay, so I am going to over here, I am going to print daily single period returns for all those 50 instruments, and this is how it looks like. Okay, so I have 50 columns over here with me, and this 50 columns have single period returns starting from 2018 to the end of 2023 right? Or 2022 I believe. Wait, just a minute. Just give me, give me a give me a minute. I'm just checking one thing, I. Okay, I am, yeah, so I should not download to the very end of 2023 because I am using that part over there, so I am going to use, I am going to download data from 2018 to the end of 2022 Okay, let me download them again. This is what the data looks like, and these are my daily returns for all those 50 instruments, and I, as I see my, I don't have the values for the very first day, because I just computed the single period returns, so I need to drop them. Okay, now over here. What I'm going to do is this. I want to answer how many instruments, how many instruments, or how many constituents that I can keep on adding to my portfolio, such that the portfolio volatility keeps on lowering, and when does it reach exactly zero? Okay, when does, when does it reach zero? So, to do that, I'm going to build multiple portfolios. Specifically, I'm going to build 50 portfolios. The first portfolio will have only one instrument, the second portfolio will have two instruments. The third portfolio will have three instruments. The fifth portfolio will have five instruments. 10th portfolio will have 10th 10 instruments, and the 50th portfolio will have 50 instruments. Okay, I am going to use equal allocation approach in all of those 50 portfolios, and then I am going to compute the volatility for each of those 50 portfolios, that is, I am going to calculate portfolio volatility for all those 50 portfolios, each of them having different number of constituents, right. And then I'm going to store all those portfolio volatility in this particular dictionary, which I'm going to then print. Okay, so let me go ahead, let me build 50 portfolios over here and see how, how does the portfolio volatility of portfolios with different number of constituents work, okay. So this is how it looks like. So what we see over here is this in the very, in the very first portfolio, which has got only one constituent, the expected portfolio volatility is 50% Okay, great. If I add one more constituent to the portfolio, right, the portfolio volatility reduces from 50 to 38% If I add one more constituent to the portfolio, and this time the portfolio has three constituents.

Speaker 1  1:58:05  
Then the volatility reduces further to 31% from 38% Okay, and likewise the portfolio volatility keeps on reducing, the portfolio volatility keeps on reducing until a certain number, until a certain number, so over here, what it shows, what it shows is that if I have a portfolio with 21 constitutive events of the portfolio would be 20% compared to a portfolio. Okay, see, compared to a portfolio where I have 848 constituents, where the expected portfolio volatility would still be 1919 62% so it shows me that. So this particular chart shows me that adding uncorrelated securities to your portfolio will help you only to a certain extent. Okay, will help you only to a certain extent. You, you will see the effect of diversification on your portfolio until, until one point after which the effect of diversification goes away, right. So it says that if I have a portfolio of 18 constituents, I'm going to help the volatility 20% which is very similar to a portfolio which will help 47 or 48 Instruments where the portfolio volatility is very similar. Okay, it's just for it's just few beeps, so which simply means that after a certain number we should not keep on adding instruments to a portfolio that is not going to provide any diversification benefit. Okay, that is not going to provide any diversification, diversification benefit. So, first observation over here is we keep on reducing the sorry, sorry sorry, so as we keep on increa adding the constituents, the portfolio will go, will reduce to an extent. After the after that extent, adding any additional constituent in your portfolio will make no difference to the retention benefit, it could provide you the difference in the return spot. Okay, and the last observation is that no matter how many instruments do we add, no matter how many add in the portfolio, the volatility really never goes to zero. So these are the three observations that we should keep in mind while building the portfolio. Now you would say that Jay, the way you build the portfolio was like you took the first instrument in your first portfolio, you took the first two instruments in your second portfolio, you took the first three instruments in your third portfolio, and likewise. Okay, but what if we shuffle these instruments? What if we shuffle these instruments. Okay, we can. We bring down this to zero. The answer is no. Okay, it does not matter how you shuffle your constituents in the universe. The chart that you are going to get would be very, very similar. Okay, so I have the same activity over here. Okay, I have the same activity over here. Instead of having 50 instruments, this time I take Nifty 100, the index Nifty 100, okay, which has got 100 instruments. I just perform the same activity over here, and see this time you and I have the different duration. Okay, so over there we have the duration from 2018 to 2022 Over here it's 21 to 26 So even if I perform this same activity on a if different bunch of instruments, right. Let's see how it, how it looks like. Okay, so over here we have another universe, another instruments, another like different constituents, and the same, okay, so here your portfolio will have one instrument, the 10th portfolio will have 10 instruments, the fifth portfolio will have 50 instruments, and the 100 portfolio will have 100 instruments, right, and again I'm going to use the equal allocation approach, which equals to one divided by the number of strokes. Okay, let me go ahead and let me simulate them, and see over here as well. I get very similar result. The effect of diversification is significant in the initial part. After a certain number of instruments, the effect of diversification goes away, and no matter how many instruments do I add, over here I have added 99 stocks in my portfolio. Still, I have 15% volatile expected volatility, so the volatility really never goes to zero. Okay, so these are the three observations. So let me take some questions, and then I can go ahead, and I can proceed further selection of the increasing number of stocks here is not strategic. Instead, stocks are added based on the current in the data frame. I guess we can increase the number, so we shall. That was my idea, right? That was my idea.

Speaker 1  2:04:53  
So, if you, regardless how you shuffle these instruments, right, you are still going to get. Similar output, you are going, you are still going to get similar results. So, Carlos says that diversification does not help that much after a certain moment in terms of volatility, but it does help in other realms, for example, in decreasing the unsystematic risk specific to the asset, so Carlos, that was the idea, so that was the idea, so okay, so to explain the to to expand on the Carlos question, like a diversification does not help after certain after certain moment in terms of volatility, but does, but it does help in the other realms, that is like decreasing the unsystematic risk. So, when I say diversify, diversifying the risk, I am actually referring to the unsystematic risk only. Okay, so if that brings us to the next topic, which is the types of risk. Okay, so when we say what different kinds of risk do we face in a portfolio, we simply say there are two kinds of risk: unsystematic risk and the systematic risk. The risk that we are able to diversify by this approach is the unsystematic risk okay? Is the unsystematic risk that we are able to get away with the risk that remains okay, the risk that remains, that is, the like, if I keep on adding, let's say 48 instruments, but still I have this 19% portfolio volatility, is the systematic risk? I cannot diversify the systematic risk. I cannot diversify the systematic risk. I only need to hedge it away. Okay, so yeah, so the Carlos, as I mentioned, diversification helps in getting away the unsystematic risk, and what remains is the systematic risk, which we only need to hedge it. Okay, so can anyone give the examples of the systematic risk? Can anyone give the example of the systematic risk, which cannot be diversified away, which only needs to be hedged, so In the recent times, we have, we have been seeing like multiple examples of the systematic risk. No, so crucial, the systematic risk is the risk that that is applied to the market as a whole. So, unsystematic risk is the risk which is company specific. Yep, right. So most of you are correct. So it's basically macro cost, like road market movements, for example. It could be regulatory changes, it could be geopolitical events, it could, it could be pandemic, it could be literally anything that affects the market as a whole, and literally in the recent times, since 2019 we have seen numerous such examples, right. Great, cool. So, Carlos has a follow-up question, which says that what he meant was that if we have a portfolio with 30 instruments, and if one goes bankrupt, if one goes bankrupt, it is not the same as if you own 200 companies and the one goes bankrupt. Yeah, that's true. That's true. So, that is what we, that is what I mentioned, right? Like adding number of stocks will not, will not help you in diversifying the risk, but it can help you in terms of returns that you get, that that is what I mentioned when we were discussing this part, right? I precisely, precisely remember my arrow was somewhere over here, so that is so again, that was the very similar stuff that you just mentioned over here. Okay, Manikandana says that can we fix a certain number of stocks in our universe and then sort them based on the correlation and sort them, yeah, come on, you can, that that is what we are going to do? Okay, another question, but equal risk given to each stock, does that make any difference in the volatility profile? No, it will not. Okay, it will not. So, yeah. Thank you so very much, guys, for your inputs. Yeah, another question. Another says that macroeconomic factors like interest rate, inflation, geopolitical events, sales, all those are systematic risk. Great. Okay, so Vishal is going, we. Rail wants to confirm systematic risk cannot be diversified and can only be hedged. Yes, that is true. Unsystematic risk can be diversified and can also be hedged. Yeah, so again, that is what right. So, once you have a portfolio, once you have your universe, you diversify your unsystematic risk, and whatever risk that remains is a systematic risk, which needs to be hedged away, right? Right.

Speaker 1  2:10:25  
So, how do we, how can we use this particular activity in our portfolio building? So, this activity will help us answer the question, like, how many constitutive constituents should be, should we be adding in our portfolio? Okay, so based on the returns profile, based on the volatility profile, we can decide how many should be there, right? So by this particular approach, I am going to say that somewhere over here, eight, okay, because I see that eight is the number where maximum diversification has already already been accounted for. Okay, so I'm going to select eight now. What universe of asset are we going to use to build a portfolio? Is our goal is to achieve capital appreciation. As our goal is to achieve alpha, we would, we shall be using a universe that contains, or that has the possibility of moving, like moving much right, and in that case equity is the one which usually moves compared to any other asset classes. Okay, so in this case I'm going to stay with the Nifty 50 index, but you can go ahead and you can select literally anything over here, so this is the only question in our process, which gets answered by answered from the objective of the portfolio. So, if my portfolio is to create a portfolio that presumes the capital, my choice of universe would be to my choice of universe could be bonds, okay, or instruments that don't move much, but over here is my, my objective is to achieve capital appreciation. I am going with equities right now. This is the one key differentiator that plays very important role in the portfolio manager's life. Okay, so this is the part where you could literally come up with n different combinations of building your universe, you could say that you, you like, again, your universe could be a mix of equity, wherein you only say that, okay, equities in the mid cap and small cap, okay? You could say that you, it, you would be in with investing, or you would, your universe only be a equity where the market cap is greater than 100 billion. Okay, you say that. Okay, your equity, your universe would be a mix of commodity plus crypto, your portfolio universe would be FX plus commodity. Okay, so this is the place where your imagination is the sky, right? Or your imagination is the limit, and this is the key differentiator in literally each and every portfolio creation activity. Right, the rest of the things could be either analyzed quantitatively or could be the simulated, okay. So, over here we are going to choose this part, but yeah, depend, and this part actually comes from the, you know, objective of the portfolio, right. Great, so now that we know the answer to these two questions, we are going to use Nifty 50 as our universe, and the constituents number should be eight. Now we need to answer, like, which are those instruments, which are those instruments, and in what proportion. Okay. Okay, so to answer, which are those instruments we already know. How can we select the instruments in our portfolio? We can select by, we can select instruments which are uncorrelated in nature, right. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to print the correlation matrix of all these 50 instruments over here. Okay, so these are these are this is the correlation matrix, but again it's very difficult and challenging to interpret by just numbers. So let me go ahead and let me print them now. Print it, and this is what it looks like, right? And this is what it looks like. So what these correlation matrix tells us that wherever we see wherever we see these dark squares, they are the ones with the list correlation. Okay, they are the ones with the list correlations, and wherever we see these darker red shade are the ones with the highest correlation, so as you can see over here, Access Bank and ICSA Bank, they both are from the same sector, so the correlation is very much high, which is 72% compared to this particular pair, which is eternal in OMGC, where the correlation is just 6% Okay, so this is the correlation matrix. From this correlation matrix, we can pick up the eight instruments that we need to add in our portfolio.

Speaker 1  2:16:36  
Okay, now you could either go ahead and select those eight instruments by yourself, which many practitioners do, or else you could simply go ahead, you could simply go ahead and print those correlations by yourself. Okay, and this is what we see, and this is what we have, so, so, these are the pairs of instruments with the least volatility. Okay, so these are the pairs of instruments with the least volatility. So, what I'm going to do now, over here, I'm going to use this part. Okay, and I'm going to build a portfolio of this initial six to eight instruments, so I take these eight instruments over here, right, which I take from this particular correlation matrix, the sorted correlation correlated matrix, and I'm going to build the portfolio. Okay, now now that we have answered these parts as well, this part as well, that based on on correlated or the list correlated instruments, the last part that we need to answer is the last part that we need to answer is in what proportion should we invest in each of these instruments. Okay, in what, in what proportion should we invest in this, each of these instruments? Before we answer that part, before we answer that part, I want to make these clarifications over here that many portfolio managers usually have some constraints. Okay, usually have some constraints. So, like Carlos mentioned, that if a portfolio manager builds a portfolio with 200 instruments, right? They would be having some additional constraints in a way that the there should not be, for example, the constraint. The constraints could be like there should not be sector concentration. What do we mean by this? Is like, there should not be the number of constituents in the overall portfolio, should not be from the same sector beyond certain threshold. Okay, or the constraint could be in terms of how much they could invest in instruments up to certain market cap. Okay, so constraint in terms of how to invest up to x amount in a single instrument, so, so we, if we say that, okay, we, we are not going to invest more than 2% In a single instrument, it simply means that we need to have at least 50 instruments in our portfolio, right. So, whatever the constraints are, right, this would be a place, this would be a place to implement those constraints, right. It could also be, it could also happen that although we selected these eight instruments from the universe, okay, from the universe, but it could also happen that the correlation between these eight instruments could be very high, okay. So let me, let me, let me plot them here and see the correlation between over here, right, it's our call India and ONGC, is 52% So, by selecting any instrument in our portfolio from the universe, have we inadvertently selected any such instrument whose correlation or any other parameter, really bad, so if correlation in up in the selected constituents is above x percent, right? Then again, we need to re-select them. We need to drop them. So, any constraints that we might have will usually be applied at this stage, right? It could be any fundamental constraint, like, or it could be any technical constraint. So, usually people do have this concern, like, okay, they, okay, so this field is also known as a quantamental analysis, wherein people would perform the quantitative analysis of the data, and then they would bring their fundamental side to this portfolio building activity to bring the edge to their portfolio. Okay, and they would, they said they would say that, okay, that the portfolio we shall be looking at the fundamental side of each of their each of the instruments or each of the constituents that we have selected, and then we will check that if the fundamental data says that we shall, we should be investing only then we should be creating the portfolio as we want, so that field has a fancy name known as quanta mental, and people do those kind of stuff over here, right? So, if anything of those sorts is to be done, we shall do, we can do over here. Okay, great. Now that we have selected the instruments, we shall go ahead, and we shall understand how can we optimize the weights.

Speaker 1  2:22:58  
So, until now, whatever portfolios that we have built, we have assumed that we would be investing using equal location approach. Right now, we all know that equal does not work all the time, right, to optimize the weights. So many of you had pointed out earlier in the class that if we want to bring down the portfolio volatility, we should not only look at the number of constituents in the portfolio, we shall also be looking at the portfolio volatility. Sorry, we should also look at the weightage provided to that constituent, which could bring down the portfolio volatility. Yes, that's true, and that is what we are now going to implement, right? Someone has also mentioned, like, we should also, we can also provide weights using inverse volatility. Yeah, so that is the step that we, we share, we shall implement now. Okay, so over here, what I'm going to do is I am going to build 3500 portfolios of these eight instruments. Okay, I am going to build 3500 portfolios of these eight instruments, such that the weights of all these instruments equal to one. Okay, such that the weights of all these instruments is equal to one, and then I'm going to build, then I'm going to compute the returns and the volatility of all those 3500 portfolios. So let me just print the head of the single period returns for each of these eight instruments that we have selected over here, let me just convert everything into the annual systems, right. And now see what I'm doing over here is I'm computing weights for the 35,000 portfolios, and those weights are such that if I sum them up, the sum becomes one. Ham, okay, the sum becomes one to generate those weights. I am using something known as Dirichlet distribution. Okay, and I say that, okay, you need to have eight weights per array, okay? And there should be such 3500 arrays, so or it's not they're not arrays, they are vectors, so there should be eight elements per vector, and there should be such 3500 vectors, so this is what it is, this is how it looks like, right, if I go ahead and if I take the very first I so this is the first vector that we have over here, and if I sum this, if I sum, sum it up, okay, if I, if I sum it up, the sum would be one. Okay, the sum is one, which means 100% Now, if we pay attention over here, if we pay attention over here, all these weights are positive, okay, which means that we only intend to go long, right. We only intend to go long. It simply means that we are not going to short anything. Okay, we are not going to short anything. So, if you are applying this concept on instruments where the shorting is also allowed, you need to change this idea over here, right? Instead of like just NP once, you could have the negative weights as well, which, which will tell you whether you need to short or you need to go long. So, if these numbers are negative, we need to go short as we need to go long. Okay, so over here all numbers are positive, because in Indian markets we cannot short overnight, so we only need to take long positions, and that is what we need to do. Great, over here I am creating a data frame, port data, which will, which I will be using to store the expected returns and the volatility for all of those 3500 portfolios. Right. Great, I am using this single command to compute the portfolio returns for all those 3500 portfolios. Okay, and then I am going to compute the portfolio volatility using the vector matrices approach using the vector matrices approach for all those certified portfolios, and once once I calculate the portfolio variances, I will convert them to standard deviation by using the square root. Okay, for each of the portfolio, so I just simulated 3500 portfolios over here. Let me go ahead and let me convert all those numbers into percentage terms. Okay, I am just converting them into percentage terms by multiplying it with 100, and now I am adding everything to the data frame that I have created over here, so that we can visualize stuff. Okay, and this is how my portfolio data frame looks like.

Speaker 1  2:28:24  
So, it says that if I pick up this particular portfolio, okay, if I pick up this particular portfolio, then I shall invest 24% in Ziplar, 16% in Eternal, 11% in trend point 1% in sorry, 1% in Aisha Motor 19% in Coal India. If I do that, this would be my expected returns and expected volatility. Okay, now this is a bit challenging to analyze just by looking at the numbers, so we shall take help of the charts. So let me go ahead and let me take, let me plot them. Okay, and this is how the plot looks like. So over here, this each dot that you see is the individual portfolio. Okay, each dot represents a portfolio, and what we see over here is known as the efficient frontier. Okay, is known as the efficient frontier. Now there are multiple ways to select the portfolio from this particular chart. Okay, if the objective of the portfolio to build is to help. Okay, let me put this way. Let me put it this way. If we want to select a portfolio at a certain volatility level, right, let's say I am. Okay, with volatility of 20% in my portfolio. If that is the case, I shall zoom it, zoom in over here at the 20, at the 20% level, and I say that I shall select the highest portfolio at that level, okay, which, which appears to be this particular part, so it says that this is a portfolio where I can expect returns of 32% and the expected volatility is 20% At this level of volatility, there are other portfolios which also exist, say, for example, something like this, right, where in the expected volatility is still 20% but the returns are just 5% So, if we are to choose the portfolio at a given volatility level, we shall select the portfolio, we shall select the portfolio, okay, on this particular cow on this particular cow, right. So this green curve that I, that we see over here that particular part is known as the efficient frontier, right. Great, another way to select a portfolio is to select a portfolio with the minimum volatility, so on the x axis I have the volatility, on the y axis we have, we have the expected returns, and this is the wallet, this is the portfolio with the list volatility, which is like the volatility over here is just 14 24% with the expected returns of 17% right. So this is the second way. Now forms like entities like pension funds or the endowment funds, they might choose to go with, they might, they might choose to go with portfolios with the least volatility, and there could be investors, there could be aggressive investors who would say that it doesn't matter what level of volatility that we need to incur. Okay, we shall only focus on the portfolio that gives the highest returns, regardless of the volatility. In that case, they can go with the portfolio with the highest returns, which is, which appear, which turns out to be 41% over here, with expected volatility of 26% Okay, so these are just some different ways to select the portfolio from this activity. There is this, there is one more way wherein we say that we shall be selecting a portfolio based on the expected returns versus the risk. Okay, so we shall do this over here. So, first, and how do we do that? So, what we do is we, we divide the returns by the volatility, we take the ratio of the expected returns by the expected volatility, and that particular portfolio that we will get is a portfolio where we can earn maximum returns per unit of risk. Okay, once we divide, once we get the ratio of returns by the risk. Okay, we can go ahead and we can select the portfolio with the maximum of that ratio. Okay, and that I do over here, and that I do over here, and this particular portfolio is the one where I can get maximum reward per unit of risk that I take. Okay, which is also known as the Sharpe ratio, not Sharper ratio, but sharper, yeah, sharper ratio to an extent. So, if we want to select the portfolio with the highest sharp pay, we can do this part, and we can, we shall get it.

Speaker 1  2:34:10  
Okay, so let me first select the portfolio with the minimum volatility, which is this one. So, this is the portfolio with the minimum volatility, 17% returns in the 14% volatility expected, and then this is the highest, or the highest Sharpe ratio portfolio, which will, which is this one, right, where the maximum returns per unit of risk is 1.65 right. Great, let me go ahead and let me plot these two charts in the in the diagram over here and I don't know why, but the okay, no worries, somehow the. Other pellet of the diagram changed, but that's okay. So, what we see over here, this star that we see over here is the portfolio, which with the minimum volatility. Okay, this is the, this is the one with the least volatility, and then we have this cross over here, which is the maximum sharp portfolio. Okay, so this is a portfolio where we can, where we can get the maximum units of returns per unit of risk, right? So these are just various ways to select the portfolios, let's take it a step further, and now what we are going to do is based on this, the portfolio that we got over here, that is the plan, and all this, all this part, right? So these are the weightage that we got based on the analysis from 2018 to 2022 We shall try to back test how this portfolio, how this portfolio would have performed if we had choose to go ahead with this. Okay, so over here, what I'm going to do is I'm going to download the out of sample data from 2023 to 2025 end. Okay. Oh, wow. So I'm going to go ahead and go. I'm going to build the download the data right for these eight instruments on the out of simple part. And then I'm going to build two portfolios. I'm going to be two portfolios. The first portfolio is the equal allocation part, and the second portfolio is the portfolio with the optimized weights. So the cumulative returns of the portfolio with equal allocation turns out to be 114% Okay, because that we saw already in 2022 2023 until mid 2024 that's great, right? And this is how the chart looks like, so yeah, we saw sharp rate sharp rise in the portfolio until mid 2024 and then it basically started slumping down. Now we will go ahead, and we will now back test the same set of instruments using optimized weights. Okay, and I'm going to select the weights from the optimized Sharpway. Okay, great. So this is what I do over here. This is my, this is how my returns would look like on the optimized spots. Okay, and let me just compute the cumulative returns, and the cumulative returns turned out to be 98 and 98% which is understandable because of all the uncertainty that we are going through currently in the market, so because after again we see that the instruments performed very similarly during until mid 2024 and then it started stumping down. Okay, so this is what we have. So this is what we can expect using these cumulative, not cumulative, the optimized weights. Right. Let me take the questions, and then let me give the final closing notes. Okay. Why are we not considering the returns and the individual variances when selecting the instruments. Why are we only considering the correlation and the covariance? Archit, we don't need to, right? So, if we, if we, if we go ahead and if we compute the correlation, right, those individual variances would, would already have been accounted for. So, if we go back to our covariance part, if we go back to the to this formula over here, right, the covariance would only be lower when the individual variances would be lower, right, if they are not, if they, if they don't move together, right, and that is, if they, if they move together, the covariances would be high, and as a result, it would be filtered out in the correlation matrix. If they don't move together, they, the variances would anyways would be lower, right? And they would, we would be them in the correlation matrix, right? Can we batch the strokes randomly in number of eight? Then we sort, yeah, yeah, we can do that. Manikandan, why not? So, is like, as I mentioned. Is just one of the approaches, right?

Speaker 1  2:40:01  
We get this is just one of the approaches. You can go ahead and you can perform all kind of permutations and combinations while selecting this part, right? And that is what I mentioned over here, like this particular part after universe selection, and then what constituents right will be the one where you would bring the differentiator part right? So, if you and me both are creating similar kind of portfolios, how would our portfolio be different? It all depends here, so Aditya Aditya Padman says Aditya Padman says, How does this work in forward testing as back test does not translate well in forward returns and risk, so this is a bit of the I would say so. What, what multiple practitioners do is they keep on rebalancing this portfolio, literally they keep on rebalancing this portfolio periodically. Okay, some would, some would rebalance the portfolio six monthly, some would rebalance the portfolio quarterly, and whatnot. If you keep on doing that, the the risk that you are, that you mentioned, right, could be negated to an extent, right? Because as the market regime changes, right, you keep on rebalancing your portfolio, and that basically gives you the that basically gives you the close that can take you the closest to your back testing part. How to quantitatively build a portfolio of different Indian ETFs. Okay, so it doesn't matter, right? What instruments you choose instead of a nifty 50, you select a portfolio of all the ETFs, right, and you pop up from the same activity, you would still be able to get the same answer. See, so this is again these concepts that we discussed over here does not apply only to a particular set of instruments, not nifty or anything, it could be literally applied to any asset class out there, right? Any asset class out there. Now, usually at institutional level, what people will do is instead of using these assets, they would be using a universe of strategies, right? So, if they would say that, okay, we have 15 different strategies over here in the form. How do we select which strategy would get what capital allocation? So they would also go ahead and they would perform these kind of simulations to come up with capital allocation for each individual strategies, right? So this is a, this concepts are instrument agnostic concepts, it could be applied to literally any instruments out there, is the portfolio with the optimized allocations a one with the set of weights, yeah, yeah, that's true, so we used the weights of this particular portfolio, which is the maximum sharper one, that's true, right? Great. So, yeah, so I believe this is all that I had for I had in the store for you guys for today. I hope you guys would have learned like a quantitative way to thought process how to build portfolios and would implement it in your journey forward. If you guys feel challenge or if you guys have any questions, please feel free to reach out to me, and I would be more than happy to answer and discuss those stuff. Alright, then I wish you all the very best, guys. I wish you all the very best for the future. So, this was the last question that for this batch we shall keep in touch. Okay, let me just take the last question. If we were to use options in our universe, what changes would we make in the process given expiry? So, again, but you, you don't want to build your portfolio using options, right? You again, so you could, of course, why not? So you could, you can say that after every expiry, your universe changes. Okay, and whatever options that you have, you take that option, you take those options, and you basically build the this particular part, the this particular part, the analysis, the then.

Speaker 1  2:44:59  
Part right, but that doesn't, that doesn't, that that won't basically help you much, right, because if you long certain options and short certain options, you will negate each other out, okay, if if the underlying is the only one in the same, so that that might not help you out, so if you are in the options trading, these, these, these are not the concepts that you would usually use, although you could use it, but it has very limited usage to it, right? It has very limited applications to it, right. Great, thank you so very much, guys, for this class. I wish you all the very best, and thank you. Take care. Bye bye bye.

