Speaker 1  0:04  
Hello everyone. Welcome to this session on object oriented programming. My name is Ashutosh Dave, and I'll be your instructor for today. Before we begin, can some of you please confirm in the chat box if I am audible,

Speaker 1  0:27  
great. Thank you. All right. So yeah, I hope your learning journey is going well. So today, our lecture is the first introductory lecture in object oriented programming. Now with this lecture, our intention is that we are going to learn a new paradigm of coding, and this is the way of coding which is generally used by the people when they build production quality code, right? Or they are like in the professional circles. If you read any code on GitHub or you read a blog, you will see the code is written using object oriented programming. So this is an important chapter or a lecture from that regard. And you have gone through different steps in Python. In this whole journey, you have done your primers. You have gone on to learn the basics of Python. Then you did some back testing using what we would say is sequential or functional programming, and now today, we are going to learn object oriented programming. Okay? Now this lecture is divided into two parts. So in part one, we are going to do introduction to the basic concepts in object oriented programming. Okay, this will build a foundation for us. So this first session, or first one hour or so of this lecture will be focused on lot of concepts and syntax. Okay, once we are done with it in the second part, we are going to apply whatever knowledge we have gained in part one, and we are going to apply it to the actual financial data sets, okay? And we will do some back testing validate an idea, okay, using op. Now the approach for this session is we are focused on intuitive understanding of concepts, number one and number two on practical implementation, right? So we will see a lot of examples, and hopefully you will gain a very good understanding of how you can use them in your own workflow. So those are the two parts, okay? And this is the approach that we are going to follow, and we will see a lot of examples, so things become much, much clearer. Okay, right? So let's jump right in. So part one is the intro to OOP concept, and the first thing we are going to discuss today are tenders, okay? So what are dunders? So, Dunder are inbuilt methods and attributes, okay, with some special characteristics, but for all practical purposes, they are the function, just like, say, a normal method or an attribute, okay? And this is best understood with an example. So suppose if I create a variable, a and set it to a value of two, and then I do a plus two. So my answer is four, okay, but what is happening behind this plus operator? Okay, behind the scene this plus operator is calling a method which is this double underscore, add double underscore, and because of these double underscores, right? It's called a Dunder, or short, right? So if I run this method, I'll get exactly the same answer. In fact, behind this plus is this tender method, which is being used, right similarly, if I have a list and I check the length is three, but behind the scene, this tender method is being called, which is a double underscore. Len, double underscore. So if I do this, I get exactly the same answer. Right? Now, you will see different this in different forms as well. So for example, if I import NumPy as NP and I check the directory of NumPy, you see that you get so many dunders here, right? You see these, everything is got, like, double underscores, and all these things are actually some attributes, or some functions, right, or some methods. So, for example, there is this one called version, right? So version has got double underscores. So what this does is it just stores the version okay of the numpy that you are running. Okay. Similarly, there is one called the package, which just stores the name of the library. And similarly, we have this one called np dot doc, right? So np dot doc contains the documentation. You can also access it like this, but this is not very intuitive, so what you can do is you can put a print on top of this so that you can access the documentation, right? This is a documentation So, long story short, yeah, so Dundas may look scary if you're looking at them for the first time, but actually they just function like any other attribute or method. Okay. The reason we are studying this is because there is a very special kind of tender called in it, which is used quite a lot in object oriented programming, as we will see going forward. Okay, now let's discuss some concepts. So what is object oriented programming, right? So in this approach of coding, we define first a generalized template or a blueprint, okay? That blueprint is called a class, and then we build different objects out of that, right? So the blueprint is basically like the main idea of some entity, and then from that idea you can create specific examples, okay? And in some form, you have already been seeing this in different forms. So say, Okay.

Speaker 1  7:55  
So what I'm trying to find here is, okay, let me do it like this. So suppose, suppose you were like a designer, okay, and you had to create the concept of a car, okay? So you would say, okay, there is something called as a car, but for something to be qualified as a car, it needs to have four tires, okay? A covered body. Okay? And an angel, okay, suppose just simply, simple example. So these are the properties that an object needs to have okay for it to be considered a car, right? And these are basically some properties or attributes, okay? Then it also needs to have some functionalities, okay, like things it can do, actually. So what a car should be able to do is to say, we should be able to drive it. It should drive on the road. It should have maybe like a hall, okay, that we can use, okay, and so on. So basically, this is the idea of. A car, or the concept, or the blueprint, or what we refer to as the class, okay. Then once we know, okay, car should have all these things, then we can produce different specific cars. So for example, I can produce, like, a

Unknown Speaker  10:17  
blue Mercedes. Yeah, or I can produce, like a black

Speaker 1  10:31  
BMW or something like that, right? And these are specific cars, right, with specific engine numbers and everything like that, right? So these are called objects, right? These objects are actually built based on this blueprint, which is the class, okay. So these objects are also called instances. For example, any car you see on the road is an instance of the class car, okay, so that is in real world, but even in Python, right? If I say I have a variable A, which is like 4.3 and I print the type of a you see it comes as a class, right? Why? Because this 4.3 is an object of class float, right? You know, floating point numbers with decimals. So that's the fun part. Okay, so in Python, everything that you see is an object, right? So even if I create an integer or a float or a list, everything is an object of you know, and see each car, sorry, each class has some functionalities which are specific, right, some properties and some functionalities. So here also, so for example, with any float, okay, what are the things I can do with a float? You know, these are all the things right which I can do with a float. So, for example, this is integer. Is a functionality like we can check if a float is an integer or not, right? So currently, 4.3 is not an integer. If I made it 4.0 then it's it becomes an integer. But this ability, okay, this is a functionality, right, which check if, of if a floating point number, like a particular object, is integer or not, okay, similarly, you know, say, lists, tuples, everything like even functions, everything fits into This frame of thinking where you have a blueprint and then you have specific examples of that. Okay. So these, these classes, like floats, integers, lists, functions, etc. They were already created for us, right? When you install the Python interpreter, all these things already are part of that, okay, so you didn't have to create them, but you can also create your own classes and objects, okay, which brings us to the next part, which is like, how can we create our our own custom classes and objects, all right? So the way we do it is that we follow a certain syntax, right? And the syntax is as follows. So firstly, what we do is that we we learn the syntax using a simple example, right? And the simple example over here is of this one, which is that of a student. Okay, now, firstly, what is the idea of a student, right? What is the idea of a student? So in general, let's keep it very simple. So first thing is, we'll define the general idea or the blueprint. Okay. In other words, we are defining the class. So in Python, when we want to define a class, we start with the class keyword, right. Then we write the name of the class, which is student. In this case, then, of course, we have. The colon, then we write the body of the class, right. And within this body of the class, the first thing that you see is the goal. Now, goal looks like a normal variable, right? And it is set to this particular string which is to get educated, right? So variables like this, which are defined in the body of the class, are called as class attributes, okay? Because these are just properties, right? Like, okay, I have a student. If I if I conceptualize a student there, of course, their goal is to get educated, right? So almost all students should have this goal, which is to get educated. Now, second thing that you see here is a function, right? Because if you look at this, this is just simply the body of a function. How you define a function in Python, and what this function does is that it prints something. Okay? It prints enjoying the lunch. Okay. Now this functions look little different. Why? Because of two reasons. Firstly, we can see that it has something on top of it, okay, like at class method. And secondly, what they take in as the input. Okay, two things. So first, let's understand what this thing is, right? So this is called a decorator, okay, so at class method is what is called as a decorator. Okay. So what decorators do in Python is that, for any given function, if you put them on top, they actually wrap around this function, okay, and they modify the output without changing the body of this function, right? So intuitively, say, I have this function, 2x okay, f of x is 2x so what this function f does is, if you give it any number, it will just double it, okay. Then I have another function, g of y, okay. So if you give it any input, it will add a two to it, right? But now if I do g of f of x, right? So then what happens is that you know that what what G does is that it adds a two to whatever you supply as an input. So if you supply f of x, then your output is f of x plus two, right? So basically, you can think that this g is the decorator and this f of x is the original function, right? So when I say g of two, first of all, yeah. So in this case, g of f of x, right? So if my x is two, right, should be like this, g of f of two, right? So what is f of two? That is two into two. That's four, correct? So this will be four plus two equal to six. Okay. So this g is the decorator. Now here, instead of writing the whole function, there's a function hidden behind this syntax, okay, but we don't see it. It's hidden, but that's for our benefit, because otherwise the code will look really complex, right? But what this does is that it links this function to the class. Student, okay, links the function to the class. Student, that is its only role, okay? And secondly, whatever is the first input, generally, we keep it as CLS, okay? That's by convention. And this CLS represents nothing but the class. So here the CLS is representing student, okay, so that is a class method. Now we define one more class method which has a different purpose. And the purpose here is to update the existing goal. Now you now you know that by default, this is our goal. But. We are defining one more class method which can take a new goal that we can supply from our side and update it. Update this thing to the new goal. Okay. Again, CLS is nothing but the class itself. So how this thing functions is like this, okay, now I can, so once this is created, right,

Speaker 1  20:35  
I can start creating different objects of this class, okay, for example, let me create an example. So for example, say, John. Okay. Now how do I create an object from a class? I just write the name and like this. Okay, so now I have created John. Now John, of course, is a specific person or a student, right? So for John, if I press the dot and the Tab key, I see three things are available to me, just like before, for a float, when you did that, these were the things available to you, and now you have created your own class. So again, you can see the things you create within the body of the class are available here. So I can check the goal. Okay, so John's goal is to get educated. That's great if I say John dot take lunch. Answer is enjoying the lunch, right? So here you can see this is a property or an attribute, right? This is not a function. Like your name is a property, or like what you say like your height is a property, right? But what you do is your functionality. So when it's a function or a method, you will always see this, curly braces, not curly braces, round braces, and it will be doing something, right? So here it's printing something, okay. So that is the difference between i between attributes and methods. Okay, attributes are properties, methods are functionalities, okay, so that's how we create objects, using a class. Now I can create another object, let me call this one Mary. Okay. Mary is another student, okay, and if I check for Mary, the goal is exactly the same. Why? Because, within the blueprint only, we have defined that any student default goal should be to get educated, right. So any student you create will have this goal by default. But we have also given a class method to update this right. So with this class method, see what we can do is that, if we say,

Speaker 1  23:34  
update goal, we can now supply a new goal. Okay, so what do you want to give us a new goal? So the new goal could be,

Speaker 1  23:57  
get educated and get a job. So we have modified the goal now, right, all right. So now, if we see what is Mary's goal, get educated and get a job, okay? And what at the class level? What is students goal, get educated and get a job. Why? Because now we have changed the goal for the whole class using this class method, right? Okay, now if I create any other student, say, I uh, let's call it Ramesh, for example. And this is a new student, right? Ramesh. And if I check now the class, the whole classes, goal. Was changed using this particular method, okay. So to summarize, we defined a class using our standard syntax, Okay, class keyword, name of the class. Then we learned how you can define a class attribute, and then we define couple of class methods.

Speaker 1  25:31  
All right? So there's a question. So Kishore asks in the student example, how are we using the decorator? Okay, so whenever we define a class method, we have to put this decorator on top. This is a decorator at class method, at class method, right? What this does is it links this particular function to the class, okay. Sharia says, can you create a function and add attributes to it? No class has attributes. Function doesn't have attributes, right? These are all functions. Okay? So,

Speaker 1  26:30  
raga says, Can we directly use goal as method despite update goal? Yeah, you can see like you can if you create a student, and then you you can access this as a property, like as a class variable, right? You can access them, okay.

Speaker 1  26:57  
Okay. Dev Santo says property or string. What is the context for this? Okay. So Amit says, Can we not create private property instead of static variable? Yeah. So those are little advanced concepts. There is no private variable as such in Python, but there's a convention okay, that we can discuss at the last

Speaker 1  27:38  
Okay, cool. Now, on Manak says, Why are we not using self? Because that comes later. Currently, we are only discussing class attributes and class methods, right? Self is part of something else, which we will discuss in the next section. Okay? So Max says having a shared goal for all students doesn't seem very practical. It should be an instance attribute so each student can have its own goal inside. Yeah, perfectly valid. This is only an example just to begin with, but you are right. So it is also possible that there are some things that need to be defined at the object level. So we will come to that in the next section. But good observation, Ajay says, How can we independently change attributes of of an instance? So yeah, we are going to, we haven't discussed any instance things yet. Okay, currently we are only, we have only discussed class level things. Okay, all right.

Speaker 1  29:07  
Carlos says, is a decorator necessary? I have seen classes with method without decorator many times. Why is that? Yeah, so we'll see, because those may be instance methods that we are going to discuss, right? So for class method, you have to put this, otherwise you will get an error, right? You don't say, So class is a group of functions and variables. Yes, that's correct. Basically, you are creating an umbrella thing under which you can define your own functions, variables, data, structures and whatnot, right? So classes are very, very flexible. They give you, like a good, you know, one solid framework under which you define all the things you need for your work. So.

Unknown Speaker  30:01  
Okay,

Speaker 1  30:18  
um, Ajay says, How can we independently, independently change attributes of an instance without changing it for the whole class? We'll see that again. Vira says, Can I add new class attributes using class methods? Yes, yes, you can. You can define a method and which, if you call it, it will create a class variable for you. So, yeah, technically, it's possible, okay, Raghav says, okay, all right. He's trying to create a function to assign a goal, which is fair way, right? Yeah, that looks correct to me. Okay, you can assign stuff like that. All right, cool. So, as many of you have said, like, there are things we do not, which should not depend on the class level. Like, okay, there are some things like, will depend on the object level. So for example, each student can have their own name, they can have their own marks, they can have their own height, weight, whatever, right? These are like, individual properties and functionalities. So for that, we have the next part. These are just some examples. So for that, now see this part we already have covered, and now we add something more to the body of the class, right? So this is the new part, and here you will see that we have two things. First of all, we have this Dunder function, or Dunder method called the init method, right? And this init method has got cell as the first parameter, right? Then there are some student specific properties, right, like students, name, age and other things. Then, what do we do within this in it is that this cell actually represents the object, right? So, for example, say, if I created an object called John or Mary, or, you know, Kevin, so this self is actually representing that object. Then to that object we attach whatever data is passed here, like the name or the age. So the way to do is, is that we just simply write self dot name, and whatever value we got here gets assigned over here, and self dot age and whatever value we got here gets assigned over here. And with this assignment to the cell, we have created what are known as instance attributes, right? So why instance because these depend on the student. They are very specific to each student, right? So this is how we actually assign instance attribute, okay, so the syntax is very important. This initialization method is a very critical piece of the whole thing, right? So now money convinces. Why are we not using class decorator? Because that's how things are done. So now we don't have to attach it to the class, right? And it's just a syntax thing as well. So class method is only needed when you are defining class level methods, right? We want to attach take lunch to the student class. You want to attach the update goal to the student class. But here, no, we don't want to attach it to any class. Rather, instead of CLS, which was the class we are using self, which is the object, okay. And then we have a method. And here again, it takes self as the first attribute, and then we give it a new age. And then it takes the old age, which was assigned here. Right? And it overwrites it with the new value. Okay,

Speaker 1  35:16  
right. So now, if you're looking at it first time, it will not make much sense to you. You will be like, Why this? Why not that? So it's like something that is very like syntax oriented, right? That's how you that's how you build things here. Okay, good thing to understand is that anything that has to do with the class right? Is is defined like this. So it's a property, simply no decorator, nothing needed. If it's a class method, you need the decorator. If it is instance related properties or data, then you have to pass it in the init function. Right? It automatically gets passed when you create an object, first thing is called, is this? Right? It looks for this, and then assigns the data, and then at the object level, you can also call this instance method, right? So how do you recognize instance method? The first thing will be self, okay, yeah, no. So Kishore says, so when we have to call the instance methods and attributes, do we have to write self? No, because when you are actually calling them, this self is replaced by the name of the object, right? So, for example, suppose, okay. Now, first of all, can I create John as an student, as a student like this? No, right? Why? Because, before, we did not have this part, right. So the class was not expecting us to give any data about the object. But now, if we have this in it, first thing it looks for is the in it, and in it is asking for two data points, which is a name and age. Okay, so now I can no longer create class objects like that. So if I have to create John properly, I'll have to provide two data points. One is the students name. Okay? And, of course, the name is John and

Unknown Speaker  37:50  
and actually, let's make it like a full name. Let's say John Paul

Speaker 1  37:58  
and the age, right? So age we can say is 19. Okay. And now we are able to create this particular object, John. Now if I say John dot tab. Now you see there are two more things I did here. So I can access John's age. I can also access John's name, okay. Now you see when I created John, okay as an instance of this student class. First thing the code tried to find out, where is the in it, okay, it found the in it. Then it says, Where is this data? This is a mandatory data. Okay, found it. It has been supplied John Paul and 19. Then what it did, it assigned that data so self dot name equal to whatever name. So self dot name is same as John dot name, you see like self was representing John. Okay, so John dot name, whatever name we gave, was assigned to that and John dot age, which is like self dot h, whatever number we gave was assigned to that that we can see over here. Okay, so Kishore, this answers your question. When we we have already created the object, then we don't use self, because self, we just use in the blueprint while we were like designing it, right? And now we can just use whatever is the name of the object. Cool,

Speaker 1  39:57  
okay, um. So that's how we pass data about the object, right? Like this, okay, via the init function or the init method. Now you know this self represents John in this examples, in this example, so John dot. Name John dot, age. Think of this like a dictionary where we are attaching the data. Next time we have a function like this, update age again by default, first parameter that is the self. So self already, now is aware of the name and the age, right? Because we attach name and age to self. So next time, when we say, sell dot age equal to new age, what it does is that it overrides this number, okay, and also it has access to the name. So for example, if I make it this, this little more enriched. What I can say is new age for and whatever is the name of the student I can put over here. Okay, all right, so have you passed self? Dot name here? No, we don't need to separately, because once we pass self, it already has access to self, dot name and save dot age, right? So that's how we can create what is known as an instance method, right? This method is only working with the it has full knowledge of the data about the object, and it's working on that data, right? So this is an instance method, okay, so now let us see how we can use this method. So I can say, Okay, I need to probably recreate John John dot, age dot, John dot, name, and I can say John dot, update age. And let's say John becomes 20 year old. So this is new age for John Paul is 20, okay? Because I it already knew the name, full name, and it already knows now the new age. Okay, so that's how these instance attributes and instance method function within the body of the class. Okay?

Speaker 1  42:45  
Manjunath says, if you're in it doesn't take any arguments, then you call it without passing any argument. Yes, that's correct, which means there's no data, object level data, right? But in that case, you need to think whether you need an init function at all, but it's possible, then Manjunath also says, or other way, if these init arguments can be default initialized, then you don't need to pass value for those constructor parameter. No. But what we are trying to design here is like a blueprint, okay? Because later on, we have to create 1000s of objects from that, and we have to create the possibility, and the possibility of be able to supply, like specific data about different objects, right? So next time I can create another, another object, say Mary, and I can simply pass some other data, right?

Unknown Speaker  43:55  
So maybe in the in the name, I can say, and in the age I can say, right?

Unknown Speaker  44:15  
So I have created this facility for me to provide different

Speaker 1  44:24  
student specific data, right using this block. So Carlos says I still don't understand when we use class method decorator.

Speaker 1  44:44  
Okay, got it when we use class method decorator, okay. Class method decorator is when we want to link this function to the class student, right? So you see, last time we called this class method, it changed the goal for the whole class. Itself, we changed this right? So class method have the ability to change the class itself, right? Modify the class or work with the class level variables, whereas these only work with the specifics, like object specific data or instance attributes and instance data, right? Okay, but at this point, how many of you understand at least 50% of this? So

Speaker 1  45:46  
what would be the goal of John and Mary at the moment? No, they are just specific objects, right? So say, for example, you are creating, you're working in student administration or something like that, right? And then your goal is to just create, like, some data and maintain it for like 1000s of students. How do you do it? Basically, you create a class, and then you create, for every new admission you have, you create an object. Okay? So right? So, yeah, just taking a little poll here. So how many of you understand at least 50% of this block like this whole thing?

Speaker 1  46:39  
Okay, great. Great. Ragavinder says, I understand 100% Okay? Understood Well, 100% Great, great. So if you are looking at this for the first time, okay, and you understand even 50% you are doing very good, okay? In fact, great. Why? Because, if you look at it for the first time, you will be like, Okay, why does we why does it use a decorator here, and it doesn't use it there and so on, right? So anyone new will be justifiably confused, and that's okay. Why? Because currently, we are just building our muscle to understand the syntax right? And syntax are like, of course, we didn't build it right? Whoever built it had something in mind. So we have to learn the syntax no matter what, right, because that's how things are done. But when we understand slowly, the concepts behind it, like, why, what we are actually trying to achieve? Like, things become much more clear, right? And at this point, if you understand 50% as I said, you are doing very good, because as we see more and more examples, things will crystallize, right? Okay, great, awesome.

Speaker 1  48:14  
Okay, so there is a question by Vira, why should it be get educated and get a job, because we updated it at a class level. Yes, that's correct. So if you update anything at the class level, then it's kind of change for everyone going forward, right? Because you're just modified the whole class, right? Okay, cool. Next one. So we have already gone through this part so you understand how to define a class attribute, how to define class methods, and how to define instance attribute using this in it, and how to define a instance method, okay, now you see this part, which is like the new thing here, okay, and it has a different decorator. It's, of course, a function, but it has a different decorator, and it's called static method, right?

Unknown Speaker  49:24  
So, what are static methods? Okay, what are static methods? Static methods are

Speaker 1  49:41  
those methods which do not have information about the class or the object, right? They are just like regular functions, but for some reason, you want to keep them under the umbrella of the class. So for example, over here, you. This class method has access to whatever is the class level variables like via this CLS parameter. Here, this instance method has had access to all this data via the self parameter. But with the static method, there is no no self or no CLS, okay? And its role is very generic type. So for example, here, the role here is just to say print, the academic year or something like that. Or if you are just running like a trading strategy, just the name of the sorry, just the date and time of the strategy, or so on like. So yeah. I mean, I could have pretty much put this thing outside of the class as well, and it would have been fine. But generally, when we are building some code, we want everything that is to be used under the same umbrella. That's why we put static methods Right. And how do you recognize them? They have this decorator static method, and there is no self or CLS here, okay? So those are static methods, so we have learned few concepts like class attribute class method, instance attribute instance method and static method. Now we a we are going to learn about a very important property, or should I say, a feature of object oriented programming, which is the inheritance. Okay. So what object oriented programming allows us to do is that once we have a blueprint, we can go on making new blueprints out of it. Okay, so for example, if I had a class called animals, I can make I can take that class and create a new class from that, which is called mammals, or I can create another child class, called birds and so on, right. So we have a big class, and then which is also called as the parent class, or the super class. And then using that, we can create other classes which are called child classes or sub classes, okay? And the way it works is this, right? So we have this big class called student, okay, so let's create it. And then here I'm also trying to create a new class called sporty student. But within the bracket, I give name student, okay, and to the body. I don't want to make any changes, so I just write pass. Okay, if I don't write pass, I'll get an error. Okay, incomplete input. So I'll just say pass. Pass means I don't want to do anything, right? No changes. So right now, I have created a new class, but I didn't have to write any code. Why? Because it took all all the code from its parent. Okay? I can also test it so say I have a student called Dave. Now, this is a sporty student. I

Speaker 1  54:07  
for example, and whatever, some random age, right? Look, Dave has access to literally everything here. But where is the code for this class? Sporty student? We didn't write any code. Why? Because it inherited everything from the parent. Okay, it inherited everything from the parent. Right now, if we say,

Speaker 1  54:48  
Help, okay, help method, or, you know, there's a question mark, then we get some information on this particular child class, right? And it. Finds, okay, whatever things, which it it mentions, inherited from student. Okay, it inherited all these things. Update, age, take lunch, outdate, goal, print this, okay, descriptors and so on. Goal, okay, so inheritance is very, very useful. Why? But because it helps us to save time and effort. If I have to create a new class from an existing class, I can just inherit and then only modify little, little things that I want to change. Okay, rest of the code I don't have to write again, right? So ragaf says, while writing code, the parent class should be defined before the child class. Yes, of course, the parent has to exist, right, for you to inherit from it. Okay, so we that's why we ran this cell and then we created this child class.

Speaker 1  56:10  
Vira says the will sporty student, inherit update goal or initial goal from the parent? Student, yes, of course, it already did, right? So for example, if you say Dave dot goal, you will see exactly the same thing what we defined here, right? It has access to literally everything. See whatever you want, okay? So if you want to run this class method, you can run that and so on, right? So it has access to everything. And there is no different currently between the child and the parent, because we didn't modify anything. We just said pass. But what's the point? Point is that the child classes are created because we want to make slight, slight changes, right? So say, Now, again, we do the same thing. We create sporty student, inherit from student, but we revise the goal, okay, so because it's a sporty student, they want to play some sport and win some trophies. Okay? Again, you create Dave and you check the goal. If it was student, the goal is to get educated, right? But if it's a sporty student, the goal is to get educated and win some trophies. So now there is a divergence, little, little divergence between the parent class and the child class, but everything else remains the same, so Jack still has access to everything else, right? So the whole thing is that the child class or the subclass can enjoy the best of both worlds. They can inherit everything from the parent and also have their own personality. Okay? You change, you can change maybe some variables or some functionalities, right?

Speaker 1  58:17  
So, money kandan says, so this is like pandas built on NumPy. Oh, yes, that's perfect. Yeah, that's a good example. So not like conceptually, right?

Speaker 1  58:32  
So the updated goal is not inherited. No, no, no, yeah, this one is only this part is not inherited. Everything else is inherited this we have revised here. Okay, cool. Now, some basic functionalities. So there is this inbuilt function which is called is instance. So whenever I give this a object and I give it the name of the class, it tells me true or false, right? So, for example, like this, question being asked is, is Jack an instance of sporty student? Answer is true. Next one is instance Jack student. So can you think and let me know, is it is this true or false? Is Jack an instance of class? Student? Do?

Speaker 1  59:44  
Yeah, so is instance gives us true if this object is an instance of this class.

Speaker 1  59:57  
Yeah, great. So this is true. Right? This is also true. Why? Because we know that Jack was an object created from sporty student class. So this is definitely true, but sporty student itself inherits from student, so this is also true, right? So this is like, this is like the father, this is like the grandfather, okay, so both are true. Okay, another one is subclass. Is subclass. What this does is it tells whether this class is a subclass or a child class of this parent. Okay, so in this case, answer is true. Why? Because 40 student is definitely inherited from student. Okay. Then we saw that we had two more functionality, like two more tenders. So there was something called this dict, right? So dict gives us, like a dictionary of all the instance attributes, okay, just like in a dictionary form, right? Okay, and then there is something called as the MRO, or method resolution order, okay? It gives us like a family tree. So say we have a class called sporty student, and then it was, of course, inherited from student. And then student itself was inherited from the primary most object, primary most class in Python, which is, yeah, ironically, it's called object, so consider it like the the ancestor, first ancestor of all the classes, right? So anything you, anytime you check MRO, everything starts from object, then the next class, then the next class. Okay, cool. So a Dharma says is in the instance tells us about the parent class, yeah. So is is instance checks if this object is an object of this class or not. If it is true, then yes. So for example, if you if you ask, is is instance, and if you say, don't know name some other class, float or whatever. So this will be false, right? Because Jack is not of the type float, right? Okay, cool. So the next concept we have to discuss is that of the super Okay, and this is explained best using this example, right? So I will give you one minute to go over this part of code, okay? And then understand what is going on here, okay? And in one minute, we'll going, we are going to discuss, like, what is this code all about? Right? Just read through this line by line, the class, what's the function defined here and so on. Okay, just pay attention to this part. All right. So

Speaker 1  1:04:23  
okay, so first thing first, you can see that we have defined a class. The name of the class is parent one,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:36  
and within this class we only have this init constructor right.

Speaker 1  1:04:45  
And of course, we know that init constructors are used for getting instance attribute right, instance level data, and the only data it is asking for is the age. Okay? Once we pass some number as age, it assigns it to the object, which is represented by self over here. So self dot age equal to age, then it does a few simple print commands. So what it does is print. I come from parent, one class in it, and my age is whatever self dot age. Okay, so this is a simple parent one class. Then what we have done is that we created another class, which we literally called child, and we inherit from parent one and again. Here we are not changing anything. We are just keeping child inherits everything from parent one. Okay, so let's run this. Okay, now I am creating Jack, who is an instance of the child class, and I'm passing age five. Okay, when I did this, what happened? So when I created Jack as an instance of the child class, it went here and search for the init, but there's no in it defined in the child. So then it looks for an init in the parent, and it found it here, right in it age. And then it printed everything. So you see this print comes from the parent, actually. Parent one. Okay. Now, this is case one. Now next case everything is the same. I have the same parent, but this time the child in the child, I have given Child's Own in it constructor, okay, so now it is asking for a grade. Okay, again, we recreate jack for the child class. And because this is asking for a grade, we give it some grade, like a. And when we run this, what happens when we created Jack? It went and it is looking for, where is the init constructor? Okay, I found it here within the child itself. So no need to go to the parent, because child has its own in it. And then it executed all of this. That is why you got this print. It is same as this one, right? I come from the

Unknown Speaker  1:07:45  
it Oh, interesting. So,

Speaker 1  1:08:00  
yeah, okay, so what is happening here is we created child and we pause it a

Speaker 1  1:08:27  
Oh, yeah, now, because we didn't run the cell, right? Okay, so now the child had its own constructor. So you see this print is coming from the child itself, because the in it is available with the child. Great. So the child has developed its own personality, has its own in it. That's why we got this. But what if the child wants to have its own personality, but also access to the methods defined in the parent class. Okay, so in that case, we use something called as the Super method. So how this works is that, of course, parent one is the same child inherit from parent one. This part is the same, and then once it's gone through its own in it routine, it can call super.in it. Now this super refers to the parent or the super class. So now, if we run again, run this first, then this. So you see, you got two prints. So first it went here, did all this. You got this print from the child. Then it called Super. Then super sent it back here to the page. Parent, and we got this print from the parent, okay, so that is how you can use the best of both worlds, so the child can have its own in it, and it also can access parents in it, right? But this was a case where we had single inheritance, right? So we had one parent and one child. But in reality, child can inherit from multiple parents, right? So for example,

Unknown Speaker  1:10:32  
if you have a class called horse, right? So a horse can be

Speaker 1  1:10:39  
inherited from two parent classes. One is living beings, another is animal, for example. Okay, so in that case, what do we do? Because then we have more than one super class, right? So in that case, we have to do something like this. So here I have parent one, here I have parent two, and then this child inherits both from parent one, comma, parent two, okay. And in addition, it has its own in it also. But then, once it runs through this particular routine, it can access parent once in it, using the name of the parent itself instead of the super right? So we are being more explicit. Here we are like, just like, using the parent classes name, and SEC again, it can also access parent two. So this time it has its own in it. It can also access the innate of parent one, as well as in it of parent two. So when we run this, we will get, like, three prints. So this comes from child class, from parent one, parent two. Okay. And we can do the method resolution order to see the family tree, so you will see the child. Child is coming from parent, one parent to an object right at the end, right? Okay. We can also give parent to first and parent one later. So everything is the same. We're just giving parent to first and parent one later. So then for this, in this particular case, the method resolution order works like this. It goes to child, then it looks for what is, who is the primary parent, the one who is like, given first over here, then it goes to this. Then it goes to the next one, okay, so you can modify the order of for it to go and search. Okay, so yeah, that is how the inheritance works. And multiple inheritance also works. So you can easily use pre existing classes which you wrote or someone else wrote, and you can just simply inherit and modify slightly and work with it. So okay. Now,

Speaker 1  1:13:33  
manigandan has a question, How to know, what are all the inputs to given? In what order is the help or question mark the only option, no, you will you, if you do it wrong, you will also get an error, right? So in this case, if I say Mary is an object I'm trying to create, sorry, say child two, it will tell me it's missing three required positional arguments, right? So position means the position matters. So first thing you need to give is grade, then age, then gender. Okay, so like this, you can also find it out. And of course, you can use the help and other things, right? So you can also use help. And then here, yeah, you can also use the dict, right? And here you can see great age, gender in this order. Okay, great. Now you have already seen, like lots of things. Till now. You have seen so many libraries and stuff like that. And now you know that all of them, you know, in some form of the other are you. Classes and objects. So if I take a Python list and it check its MRO, it's a very simple kind of data structure. So you see like object list. Similarly, if you take a dict and you check it's also very simple object dict. How about a numpy array? So if you use NP, NumPy and check the MRO, right? So again, it's rather simple because it's object and NumPy dot and the array. How about a data frame? Okay, first, let's create a data frame using PD, dot data frame, and then check the MRO. Right now, when you check the MRO for a data frame, pandas, data frame, you see, like you start with object, then you go on to some other class, then some other class, then some other class. Finally you reach frame, dot, data frame. So you see, like to build the data frame, there were so many intermediary classes right from which the final data frame inherits, right? So almost you can do this with any existing Python, you know, object or class, and you will be able to see like, Okay, what all things it inherits from, right? So, yeah. And why is this the case? Why this has so many parents? Because, of course, data frame is a more sophisticated kind of data structure. It has rows, columns and so many functions that you can use on top of that, right? So someone wrote all those things, correct? Someone wrote all those things within a big class called this bundle, dot code, dot frame, dot data frame. And say, if you have a data frame, you can do stuff like this, right? My DF, dot sum. Okay, so someone wrote this some method, okay, inside this class, so that's how you are able to access all these things. So that is the bigger picture. And, yeah, I think, Okay, this is just for reference. Cool, right? So that is a part one of the lecture. So we'll take a 10 minute break, and when we come back, we will use whatever we have learned for doing some back testing and get some data and work with real financial data to see how we can just use whatever we have learned, okay, and that will strengthen the concept again. Okay, cool. So the time here is 1718, so 10 minutes would be 1728, right? So, yeah, let me just right here as well.

Unknown Speaker  1:18:28  
So yeah, see you guys in 10 minutes, right? So.

Speaker 1  1:28:02  
Not You hello, yeah, So we are back, guys, can some of you please let me know if I'm audible?

Unknown Speaker  1:28:51  
Great, thank you. Okay, so, just to recap in part one, so I've just pasted this thing here just for the quick recap.

Speaker 1  1:29:11  
What did we learn? We learn the syntactical part, right? So how we define a class, how we define class, object and method, how we define instance attribute and instance method and the static method, right? So now just quick recap of what we have learned about back testing, right? So, generally, in your previous lectures, you did some back testing, and I think you must have used like sequential or functional programming. So what were like the critical components of a back test? You know, back testing can largely be broken down. Into several steps, and these are not hard and fast. These are just like logical steps. So for example, you start with an idea that you think will make money, then you get some data to validate it or test your hypothesis. Then you transform that data to create indicators, then you check, then you generate signals, right, historically, okay, if this happened, would I be long or short? Then, yeah, if you're using one lot then, or like, multiple lots, like, whatever is your strategy, you can get the positions. Finally, you know what your position was and how the price change right, so you can compute what returns you would have made historically. And finally, you can do an analysis of that to see whether it makes sense for you to continue with the idea or drop it. So yeah, without wasting much time, we will quickly run through one example. So yeah, again, we'll use why finance here of to get the data and quants that is a nice library to do some analytics, right? Okay, great. So let's first define a start date and then end date, right? So what is the start date? Start Date is today's date, which is this, sorry, end date is today's date, and we go back to 252, into three. So that's like three years back. Okay, actually, let me, let's make it five years back. So um,

Speaker 1  1:32:06  
yeah, okay, whatever. So we have the end date and the start date. Now the idea, right? So, idea is that could be just a simple idea that you have seen many times. So you will be able to compare it in the OOP format as well. Which is that, okay? We'll get the we'll trade the nifty index right, which is like SNP 500 or, yeah, maybe you can put it spy, right, Spy, so that's the SNP 500 ETF, first thing first, we need to get some data for it right, see how the data looks. Of course, we did a call to why finance API, and we see this is how the data comes. Now, this looks like something we don't need, so we have to drop it using this drop level, so our data looks like this now, right? So we have ohlcb price. Now, what is the strategy? Strategy is that if our 10 day moving average crosses 20 day, then we either buy or sell, right? If the 10 day crosses 20 day from below, then we buy, which means, because we think the momentum is increasing, if it crosses from the top, then the momentum is decreasing, right? So like that. You know how you can use your rolling and shift to create the create the necessary indicators, right? So like this. So now you have created these columns, sma 10, sma 20, and what were the values previous day? Okay, so that you can do like a vectorized back test. So now we have the data. So how many things are done? We have the idea. We have the data. We did, the indicators. These three things are done. Now we have to generate signals. So how did we generate signal? Again, the same logic, wherever this 10 days greater than 20 day, but yesterday, the previous trading day, it was less, but today, it's more, which means there has been a crossover, right? In that case, we go plus one, right? And if it the other way around, like yesterday, it was less, right? Sorry, yesterday it was more, but today it's less. So you go short, okay? And. This we do to preserve whatever we computed here right, so that we get the value counts. So how many long signals we got, 17, how many short signals we got, 18, right? And then we know that we can just do forward filling right to get the positions right, and then we have the positions, because now instead of this signals, we know that till we get the next signal, we are either long or short. So this minus one, minus one, minus one, then again, we get a positive signal, buy signal. So then we go plus one and so on, right. Then, of course, we can compute the buy and hold returns, which are the passive returns, and then the strategy returns is nothing but buy and hold returns multiplied by the shifted position. Okay. So we got this. Now we have everything that we need. Now it's time for little bit of validation and analytics. So first thing was, this is a chart that we plot some visualization. Now this is to make sure that the signals that we are creating are logically correct. So yeah, this green line tells us whether we had a position. Right position is measured on this right axis. So plus one means we were long, minus one means we are short, and zero means no position. Okay, yeah, you can use Plotly, like, whatever you want. Matplotlib is, like, less expensive, like, in terms of computational load. That's why we are using it. But, yeah, you can use Plotly. Plotly Express seaborn, whatever. Okay, so now, over here, initially we had no position, then we got a short signal. Why? Because this blue line crossed below the orange line. So we went short, and we captured all this moment, right? We were short. Then this started going up, and we went long as well, right? So then what we are trying to do is to capture the trends basically here, right? And we we can see that the signals are generated correctly. Now we can also plot the equity curve, right for both the buy and hold returns and the strategy returns. And in this case, you can see like, although our strategy was doing well at certain points in time, right in this case, buy and it's not beating the buy and hold. Okay? So our strategy has not done very well compared to buy and hold, so we pretty much know that it is maybe not the best idea, right? But suppose, if this look promising, we could again use the quant sets library to do a deeper analysis, right? So, for example, again, you can see the drawdowns, like how much bleeding there is, and when it occurs, what are the patterns there? So for example, like you can see that, generally speaking, say Octobers are not great for this strategy. They have negative returns on a consistent basis and so on. Like you can draw your own conclusions, but this is the kind of deeper analytics with sharp ratio and all those things that you can get into. Okay, if required. So we have completed the whole life cycle, right? We went from strategy, data, indicator, signals, positions, returns, and finally, analysis. Now, what is the problem here? The problem here is that this was done in a very sequential way of coding, right? So we first did the imports, and then we selected a ticker, then we ran a cell, and then we went one by one by one, okay. Now this is good if we are just have to do like less number of strategies to test, right? But a better way would be using Object Oriented Programming, okay? And how it would be like this, okay? So here we have created a class. So we do the same thing, but using Object Oriented Programming, right? So I have a class. What is the name of the class? Back testing, crossover. So. Okay, right. Within this, I have this init constructor. Now, this init constructor asks the user to supply some data, like the ticker, start date, end date, and the values of the two parameters, Ma, short and Ma Long. Once we supply that, you know what is happening here, right? It is just taking this data and appending it to like, attaching it to the cell, right? This is very similar to what you did here. This thing, right? Self, dot, name, self, dot, age within the in it. So it's very, very similar to this, correct, what we are looking at now. Only thing is now our class is a back testing class, and the data for each back test that we have to pass is the ticker start date and date and the values of the parameters. Okay, so once we get the data, we create these instance attributes. Okay, then within the run of the init function only, it just calls some functions in a step by step manner. And all these functions are instance methods, which we have defined here. Okay, so, like each of these functions represent one step of our back test. So the first one is called fetch data, which does something very similar to,

Speaker 1  1:41:57  
very similar to this part right calls y of dot, download, gets the data, cleans it, okay, what is the next step? Next step is computing the indicators and so on, right? So they're like multiple steps, and each of these functions does exactly the same thing as before, right? This one patches the data from y finance. Next one takes that data, right? Because now that data is stored in self.df, right. And when we pass self, it already has access to self.df, right. So cell.df, Ma, short, Ma, long, okay, all these things are created. The moving averages are created Next, once we have the indicators signal Same to same logic, the one we used above right, M, a short exceeds M, a long, go long, right, M, a short goes below m, a long, go short, and so on. Positions Same to same logic, what we do is we forward, fill, basically, okay, returns, same to same, buy and hold returns. Strategy returns. Now, one thing it does is it prints the total return. Right, whatever total return you get, it just prints it and also returns the same value as well. Right? First of all, it prints and then also returns the same thing. And then there is this analysis function, which, again, calls the quant stats library to do like an analysis like the one we did here, right? This one. So what I have built now is like an umbrella under which I have different steps, right? I have facility for providing all the data and then all these functions that I require for my back test, and I have automated them because I called all of these within the init itself. Yeah, Jesse says, Can we get this heat? Yeah, you should already have this on your LMS. If you check the DMP 02 section of that, you will find it, okay, cool. So let's build this back testing crossover class now, yeah, let's have some, some random let us do this like for four years. Okay, so this is a, this is some period where we had the covid crash and then the market went up, whatever, some active, nice period. Now, once I have created this class, what is an object of this class? Object is a particular back test, right? This is the blueprint for back. Testing. This is a class. Objects will be specific back tests, right? So let me create a back test over here. So for example, my object is called nifty 1020 strategy. Okay? How it's created, back testing crossover. It's a child. It's a object of this class. Ticker is this nifty ticker, start date, end date, and 10, comma, 20 is nothing but the MA short and Ma Long values like the windows. Okay. Now I can run this in this and it just returns me. Total Return is point one 4% so how much time did it take for you to run this back test? Maybe like half a second. Okay? Now point one four is like 14% return, right? And we

Unknown Speaker  1:46:02  
can do the call the analysis function to do the analytics right? So this is it.

Speaker 1  1:46:11  
So how did our strategy perform? So our strategy is the orange line. It did very, very well during the crash. It was very resilient. Then, since 2021 it started underperforming. Okay, alright, but net, net, what is our sharp ratio? Point two, two, okay. And yeah, you can see the other things, like the drawdowns and stuff like that. And when it performed well, you can see in 2020 largely, and so on. Okay. Now this is only one back test. Okay. What if I want to run this on nifty 520 strategy instead of 10, I can just replace it with five, and I can create a new object. Nifty, by 20, right now you see this makes 26% returns, which is much higher than this 14% so again, we can call the analytics function on this to see what's going on, basically, right

Unknown Speaker  1:47:28  
now look at this. So here our strategy, if you look right,

Speaker 1  1:47:38  
it did very well in the covid, and then, since then, it's been just neck to neck with the buy and hold. So would you so suppose you are managing like a big fund, okay, would you prefer the buy and hold or the strategy? In this case, just your personal opinion, you can let me know in the chat box.

Speaker 1  1:48:08  
Okay, so Yuan says strategy JC says buy and hold money. Can says buy and hold, buy and hold, buy and hold, yeah, okay. Raga of say strategy before covid, prefer strategy because you draw down, yes, yes. That's the whole point. So at this point, if you were, if you were, if you had put your life saving into some Fund, and the fund did this, you would probably get a heart attack, right? This is, like, very, very volatile. This is the amount of risk you are taking,

Speaker 1  1:48:50  
whereas strategy did well. But see net, net, you are, like, very close, neck to neck. Sometimes strategy is above, sometimes it's below. You're very close. But the amount of risk taken to reach that point, okay, when it starts mattering, then you can probably consider the strategy right now. One thing, of course, this is a very simplistic assumption, because our strategy has many buy and sell decisions for which you will also incur cost and stuff like that, pay taxes, but net debt, right? So if your strategy was beating, then now you are like talking, okay, now it's making more sense, right? Okay, yeah, you have to balance everything, the fees, the taxes and all other things. Okay, anyway, so moving back now, let me test this strategy, 520 strategy, on the banking stocks. So the ticker is NSE bank, so this makes 29% Return. How about the it stocks, so information technology stocks. So here the return is like nine, like almost 100% return, right? Your money is getting doubled. But is this better than buy and hold? Let's check.

Unknown Speaker  1:50:18  
So here you see, at least for the IT stocks, it index,

Speaker 1  1:50:28  
yeah, we can see that in this case, would you go with the strategy or buy and hold?

Speaker 1  1:50:42  
Yeah, of course, to execute this, you would have to go into futures. Yeah, that's correct strategy, right? Because, yeah, you avoid this heart attack, draw down, and then you also beat the buy and hold, okay, so essentially, it's not about the profit and loss. Here it's about, do you have the power to conduct your research? Well, okay, and how fast and efficiently Can you do it? So moving on to some US stocks. So say I want to test this on Microsoft. Okay? Microsoft, 520 negative return, Microsoft, 1020, slightly positive return, Apple, 52% returns. Okay, 57% returns. So maybe let's have a look at the apple. 520 Yeah, still not beating the buy and hold. So probably okay, okay, not great. How about Bitcoin? So let's check 520 strategy on Bitcoin. Okay, so this is almost like 200% returns. But is it better than your buy and hold? Probably not, because Bitcoin has gone like multi folder. But how about risk adjusted? How about on risk adjusted basis? So let's see. Oh, not too bad. So if you, if you were like a Bitcoin trader, you would avoid this loss. You will be up here, okay, down here, but then neck to neck, and finally you are again, up. So, yeah, so I mean, depending on from asset class to asset class, you can test it out, right? So Manikandan says, Can we check this on NASDAQ? So if you can tell me the ticker, I can check that. What's the ticker for neck? Yahoo ticker for NASDAQ, is that n q or something? N q is the future, so I'm not sure if you can. Yeah, there's nothing like n q, yeah, whatever. So you can get the ticker and test this out. I think it's Q Q, you can test it on Q, Q Q, because q, q q is an ETF, which tracks NASDAQ, I think 46% return. So okay. I mean, just check if this is great or bad. Probably not that great. But, yeah, okay, so and, yeah, similarly, any type of commodity, suppose, say you want to check it on some form of commodity. So say oil. What is that CL equal to x, or something like the futures? Yeah. So 79% return, right? So this is the continuous future, so you can use it for back testing. Are there any commodity people here, trading commodities and stuff?

Speaker 1  1:53:57  
Okay, Vivek says i x IC or NASDAQ. So yeah, let's do that.

Speaker 1  1:54:10  
44% roughly similar to the QQ. And someone says Nvidia. So someone says, gold, let's do gold first,

Speaker 1  1:54:35  
X, A, u is probably the ETF right for a gold. Okay, no, it's not. Maybe there's some issue with the

Unknown Speaker  1:54:45  
this thing is that the future, yeah, 27% not great anyway.

Speaker 1  1:54:53  
So you get the point, like, how you can, you know, test anything you. Uh, and the final we will do is the NVIDIA so NVDA,

Speaker 1  1:55:20  
8% right? So that time, Nvidia stock was not booming like it is booming now, right? But anyway, you get the gist, right, like you can actually just check the analysis to see how it did compared to buy and hold as well. So, yeah, I did, didn't do very great with Nvidia that time, at least, right? So this is a little 2022 would be interesting to see how it did in 2025 and 2024 but, yeah, you get the point right. How we can do this. Okay? So

Speaker 1  1:56:07  
money Kanan says, How do we know which sticker to take for index? Should we take index ETF or index picker or ETF picker? So yeah, like this is only very quick prototyping, right? So you can just use the index, but then later, say you are trading future, then you need to test it on futures, basically, right? So this is for very fast prototyping. You get the idea, but it's like, not great. You can just throw the idea in the bin. Move on and keep iterating till you find something profitable, okay? And then you design like a much better back test with transaction cost slippage, etc, etc, right? Okay, cool. So, yeah, FX, GBP, USD, you guys give it a try and let me know how it goes. But coming back to the topic of the day, which is object oriented programming. Now you are able to see the power of object oriented programming, right? So what essentially, we did was that we created this class and then we created like hundreds of back tests on back of that. Now, now I want to test something little different. Instead of the regular, simple moving average, I want to test Exponential Moving Average, right? So do I need to write the whole code again? No, why? Because we so we can simply use inheritance. So this is my new class, which is called back testing EMA crossover, and it inherits from back testing crossover. Okay, and then you have indicators only the indicators are updated because, of course, for exponential moving average, you can use the dot, E, W, M function instead of the rolling, okay, as you saw in your last lecture. So you can just change how you compute the indicators rest. Everything can remain the same, right? In addition, if you want to record the date of the back test, you can put a static method which prints that right. Whatever is the current date time, it will print that okay. And you can put a class method to describe what kind of back test you are doing here. So here it record. We are back testing the long, short, Ema crossover strategy, etc, etc, you know, all these things. Okay, that's it, basically. So it's very small code, right? Even this is optional only you chain like four or five lines of code and you get a completely new kind of back test. So let's do some exponential back tests. So again, we can get some dates, do it on Apple, you know, or check the 520 can check about this back test. So this is coming from the class method. We are back testing Long, short EMA strategy. And you can also check the date of the back test, which is today. So if you're doing research, you need to log all these things right, like, how many tests you did, what all what was the coverage? How many stocks could you go through and so on and so forth, and then you can keep logging the builder database around it and whatnot. So, yeah, that's that.

Speaker 1  1:59:59  
Okay? So. So then there are some questions. So Shreya says, India, we cannot short in cash segment, yeah, futures, so this is already answered. Author says we can also deploy the strategy when we want and buy and hold accordingly, because at the end, execution of strategy matters, yes, of course, yeah, you need to definitely take into account the transaction costs and slippage, right? But before going into that much level of detail, you want to rule out like ideas which are not going to work anyway, right? So if a strategy looks profitable, then only will check okay, is it still profitable after taking out the transaction costs? Right? Okay. Max says this could be extended to support other indicators? Yes, definitely. This is only like a skeleton, right? You can put any indicator, whatever, like any form of logic that you want to test, okay?

Speaker 1  2:01:17  
They were Santo says, I have a doubt. Back test, work, 100% for future. No back test. There's no guarantee, right? What back test tells you is like, Okay, what you can learn from history, there's no guarantee that it's going to repeat in future. Right? Markets are probabilistic, so you you are understanding probability basically here, right? What is, what are the likely chances? No one can guarantee anything, right? Okay, Sharia says how to simultaneously back test 500 stocks. Okay, we'll come to that. Is it possible to show us all nine transaction costs implemented within the program? Yes. So in this case, all you need to do is, if you know, like, how much your broker charges, right? For whatever one lot in India, it is very cheap. It's like 20 rupees or something for one order. So here, you know, in in a case like this, we hardly did like two trades, so that would be like 40 rupees or something, right? And all of these are like, you don't get signals every day or something, you get like less than 20 signals. So that will be like 400 rupees plus taxes. So consider it like something less than $10 right? So if you are getting great level of out performance by paying $10 then sure? Why not? Apart from that, you also have to estimate the liquidity price that you were likely to get on that day, right? So if the markets were liquid or not, but generally stock, like Apple and, you know, all these ones are, like, pretty liquid, so shouldn't be too far away. Yeah, if you're trading highly illiquid security, then you have to take care of slippage as well. Okay. Manigan says, how to make the code which automatically generate results of SMA LMA and get the best SMA LMA combination? Yes, so we'll come to that.

Speaker 1  2:03:21  
Promo says, can we build strategy using chart patterns? Yes. So this is actually using one kind of technical indicator, and you can also just code the logic of the chart patterns, like hide and shoulders. There's that, and you can, of course, do that. Okay. Cool. All right, so, going forward,

Speaker 1  2:03:58  
we have seen how inheritance works here right now. Many of you are asking like, how to get the best combination, right so? And here's a simple, like strategy to deal with it. And it's very, very simple. So let's go over how we can figure out the best combinations, right? So I create two lists. So one contains fast ml list, slow MLS, right? All the candidates we want to test. Five, day 10, day 15, day 20, day and year 2550, 102 100. Let's also include 200 as well for fun. Okay, now I have three empty lists that I'll use to store the results from my iterations. Why? Because now I want to combine each of this with each of the post. Will values from the slow ma so I will first iterate for i in fast ma list, for j in slow ml list. So for each i, like five will be combined with j equal to 20 5j, equal to 50, and so on, right? So in all how many back tests we will do, 1234, multiplied by 1234, so those are 16 back tests, right? And this will be on the Apple stock, right, and then we will look at the results, right? What we are doing is we are iterating over the different combinations, creating an object and appending the results from that, right? So let's run this. Okay, it's already done, right? So in one second, I did how many back tests, 16 back tests, right? 16 back tests, and here are the results. Okay? So you can see the combinations past Ma, five slow. Ma, 25 net returns this. So one thing that would help is to sort this according to the net returns, right? So for that sorting, we use sort underscore values, just a pandas function, and we get it like this, right? So in this case, this 10 100 seems to be the best combination, right? And so on. Okay? So this was trying different strategies, different combinations on the same stock, which is Apple, right? How about we want to do the other way? So we have a list of stocks, right, and we want to try the same strategy on each of that so again, we can run a simple loop, okay, create two empty lists and then iterate over each of these stocks, right? So for stock in stock list, create an object of the back testing crossover class and fix the windows or parameter values and keep iterating over the stock right? So let's run this.

Speaker 1  2:07:24  
Yeah, so we are done, and then we can check the results. So these are the results for different stocks, and again, we can sort them for ease of access. So this particular strategy, then you can see what sort of talks it works on, right? So, for example, over here, we can see that it kind of works well on some communication stock, some FMCG, right, and so on. And then it does pretty bad on some others, like coal, India, Cipla, some pharma stocks and so on, right, and so on.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:08  
So, yeah. Now the third thing is, you want to

Speaker 1  2:08:17  
figure it out. Okay, different stocks and different strategies. So then what you have to do again, add like one way, like you can one simple ways for I, for j, and you can also add for K. K means a different stock. And then you can collect all the data, right? But that is homework. That is your homework, which is basically you have two sites of homework. So in number one, this is a more generic one, so that you practice the fundamentals of the object orientation, which is, again, a very simple one. You create a class called four wheeler. And then you have number of tires, manufacturer, manufacture model color. And then you create an object which is BMW model, if five series color is blue. So this is for the basics, for little advanced. First of all, this one, different stocks, different strategies with three sets of loops. And secondly, all the strategies that you have studied as part of ePAT or otherwise. Okay, you build an OOP format for that and try it out on like SNP, 500 stocks from SNP, 500 or the 50 stocks from nifty 50. Okay, do large scale back tests and collect all the results and analyze what sort of talks your strategy works on. Okay, cool, all right, uh. Up. So I have given you some stocks here to play with. For example, Dow Jones, of course, has, like, probably more stocks, but you can maybe try these ones or add your own. And then these are, like, for Indian markets. This is bank nifty set of 12 banking stocks that you can be around with, okay? And, yeah, cool. So with that, we come to the end of today's lecture. Now if there are any pending questions, we will discuss that. We'll take like, a two minute break, okay, come back and answer the remaining questions. But yeah, guys, I hope you have realized the power of object oriented programming, and now you are, like, ready and excited to implement it for your own use case, right? And I hope it helps you to make money, which is the which is one of the goals, why we do all the research, and, you know, all the hard work, all right, okay, so let's take a five minute break, and when I come back, I will answer any remaining questions, right? So the time here is 1811 so five minutes means we'll be back at 1816

Speaker 1  2:11:34  
Cool. See you guys soon. All right, and in case you don't have any questions, you agree to drop out. And I wish you all the best and happy whatever is remaining of your weekend. All right, thank

Unknown Speaker  2:18:39  
All right, guys, so we are back to answer the questions.

Speaker 1  2:18:49  
Okay, so, yeah, if you have any questions, you can replace them, because they they were like a flurry of questions. So let's start from the top. So Jesse says, Can we get this sheet? Of course, it's available on your LMS already. Kishore says we will also learn about maintaining the code, like version control, etc. Yes, I think, although I'm not sure, it's not, definitely not part of this lecture, but, yeah, there will be some lecture which will deal with GitHub and how you can do version controls and upload your code to GitHub and maintain it over there. But I think you'll have to ask your program manager as to when that will happen. Okay, Aditya says, How to Create List of stocks from a database. How to Create a list of stocks from a database. So probably your database has a column called stock name or something like that, right? So you can do. Definitely. You know, first of all, you can suppose you are using SQL. So there's a library called SQL alchemy. You can read your SQL database from Jupyter notebook in Python and then just put it in this sort of format, right. Just iterate over the stock names and convert them into strings of this form and just put them into a Python list, right? Depends on how your database is structured. Jesse says, Can this be done with Forex? Yes. Why not any kind of financial data, right? It doesn't matter. You can put a ticker like GBP, USD, whatever, right? And you can test if a certain strategy works or not. The only thing with Forex is that Forex is generally, in most cases, like a mean reverting time series. So a momentum strategy may not do very well, but you can just try some mean reverting strategy, statistical arbitrage, something like that. Okay, but technically, you can do it all right? Jesse, then Atharva says, can we make order book simulator using oops? Yes. In fact, all the simulators out there are built using oops, right? It's a very long and complex, complicated code, but it definitely uses classes and objects, so you are bang on on that oops. Is definitely used. Okay. Carlos says, in order to analyze the results, is quant, quant sites most used, or there are some others that are also interesting. Which are those? So there used to be some of them. Now, the thing is that these are all open source library. Some are maintained, some are not maintained. So I personally like to do my own plots. I write my own code, but yeah, if I have to do something quick and so quant sets is pretty well maintained from that point of view, right? Yeah, it's one of those I think ran Roc maintains at all. Yeah, you have to look at the team who maintains the code and how frequently they update it. So, yeah, I would say, write your own code if you have got very custom requirements. It doesn't take much time these days. Anyway. Ra, raga says, new to programming, how much time, what steps to be followed for becoming well, was in writing codes. So I think with programming, just take up, like small, small projects. That's the best way to learn, right? So say, Okay, I need to get from A to B, then figure out your way. So you will make mistakes along the way. You'll write wrong code. Is that, but that is the only way to build that muscle, right? Your skill will be much, much better. So, for example, take up a small project. Say, I have to implement moving average Monday strategy using oop, and then just try to build it yourself. Of course, you will probably do something wrong there, then ask for help, and then keep on at it, and suddenly you will figure out that you know, you have built that skill. But yeah, time taken is depends on, like, where you are starting. If you're like, super new, then I would say, give it like six, seven months. And if you have genuine interest, then yeah, you should be like, in a good place with that, if you practice often money. Kandan says that time taken to back test is based on what components of our computer. So first of all, say again, like so depends on what you are using. So if you're using, like your Python scripts, and you are running it on VS code or cursor or something like that, then, of course, one thing is memory, right? So what's the configuration of your RAM and stuff like that. But generally, if you're using daily data, it's not very heavy. I think if you have, like, a decent laptop, shouldn't be lot of issues, right? So you have to look at your RAM and like, of course, what's the data source from which you are reading the data? So for example, if you have data on an SSD drive versus an HDD drive, of course, the SSB will be much faster, right? So there are two parts to it. One is the one is the IO part, so input output, that depends on what kind of hardware you're using, how you're fetching the data and so on. Another is your computation power, so the CPU and the RAM and stuff like that. Okay, so it's a combination of all those things, but largely, if you're dealing with daily data, then stop. Box. Then, yeah, doesn't make often, like, so in this case, you saw we did like, five years of back testing. It took us like one second to do 16 back test, right? So depends on if you're doing it on HFT kind of data. Then you have micro, second, Nano, second level data. Then, of course, you're going to take much, much more time, and then, yeah, your computation, like compute power and the hard, hard, where you are using makes lot of difference, right? Okay, Raghavendra say, where can I find and source institutional level trading strategies, asset class, fixed income, bonds and IRS. So now institutional level depends on, like, what institution you are referring to, generally. If it is like a very, very profitable strategy, you have to actually build it from your own experience. No one is going to give you that on a platter, like, Okay, here's the strategy. People will share what, some broad ideas, and then you'll have to dig it down to your own research. Generally speaking, if you are looking at buy side institution, they don't use very complex strategies anyway. So you can look for some research papers on quantum mental kind of investing. If you are looking more from like trading point of view, then trading is a different kind of thing where, like most of the academic papers, will probably not work very well because of P hacking and other issues. So best is look at the market, build some experience, build an edge, and then test it. That's my point of view. But yeah, not hard and fast. A third. Says, What beginner level project can we make? Can you suggest some? Okay, yeah, so I mean, because you're doing this course, you should be able to basically take any idea under the sun and then validate it, right? So start from simple strategies and go on to more complex ones and, yeah, I mean, do like, how you can optimize for speed and stuff basically create, like, huge, huge set of GitHub repository with different kinds of strategies and stuff like that, right? That should definitely help. One says, is it worth doing a technical analysis course like CMT, with this course? So I can't comment on different courses. Some people like, yeah, technical analysis. Some people believe in it. Some don't, right? So depending on which camp you fall in, but yeah, I don't know what CMT actually covers, so I won't be able to make a comment on that one, unfortunately, uh, manjuna says you have to worry only if it is tick by tick data. There was probably no need to worry. That makes sense. Tick bite is heavier data, so you need good processing power.

Speaker 1  2:28:24  
Jewish man says, if we take a reference code file of strategy, then use llms to upgrade it. Is it feasible? Yeah, definitely. Why not take a basic pile ask the LLM to upgrade it to whatever you want. But be careful that llms Generally, you know, seven out of 10 times they'll do okay, but three out of those times they'll make errors. So you should know basic to intermediate level of coding you want to debug that right to guide the LLM to get to what you want. So, yeah, learn coding, and then, of course, you can use LLM and AI to enhance Okay, Sharia says how to scan for trading opportunities for 500 stocks in Nifty 500 stocks. Yeah. So, I mean, first of all, you need to have a hypothesis, right? Like what is likely to work, what's your strategy? Then again, just get the data and test it out. So main thing there is to first have a hypothesis and then to actually convert it into like a testable form with like code. Okay? In terms of scanners, again, it's the same rule, right? So you need to build like a set of code, like, like a full code base which gets live data right, and, or even for that matter, historical data and tests different ideas right. So then op should definitely help in that regard. Um. Now says I was developing a pro loader and cleaner for getting clean data. Yeah, I want to discuss about it. Yeah, definitely send us an email. We'll be able to help you out. Okay. Manikannam says, Can you give some examples of statistics based strategy, yeah. I mean, there are tons of them, for example, statistical arbitrage, right? I am not sure if you have guys, if you guys have already covered it, but yeah, it uses your mean reversion in time series, like your augmented Dickey fuller tests and so on, which are all completely based on statistics to determine your buy and sell signals, right? So if the market goes too much away from its mean, then it's it is able to give you, like, a buy or a sell signal, expecting mean reversion. And even before that, how do you know whether a series is mean reversion, mean reverting or trending? So there are different statistical tests, and yeah, they will be covered as part of the program. But yeah, it's heavily used, so good to you know, learn all that, at least the basics, before those lectures actually reach you. All right. So that brings us to the end of this lecture. All the questions are answered. If you have anything remaining, always you can, you know, hit up, hit us up with an email. But yeah, I wish you all the best and stay in touch. Take care and enjoy the rest of your weekend. All right. Goodbye. You. More.

Unknown Speaker  2:35:17  
More no.

