Speaker 1  0:07  
Okay, hello everyone. Before we start, can someone please confirm if I am audible, visible, and if you can see my screen?

Speaker 2  0:28  
Okay,

Speaker 1  0:34  
yes, yeah, all right, audible, visible, and you can see my screen as well, I Yes, perfect. Great, thank you so much, everyone. And hello to all of you here. And welcome to this session on tackling desk operations and regulatory environment. Essentially, how do we go about setting up our own desk, right? So, so that's today's session. And thanks for taking your time for this session. And a brief, quick introduction about me. I look after the overall business side for quantity, and I'm one of the co-founders and partners for iRage. So, quantity is more on creating an ecosystem for people who are trying to learn about this wonderful domain of quantum algo trading. I rage is more of a private ecosystem of our own high frequency trading, in which we are the clearing and trading members for our own, but for our primarily for our own trading and very limited clientele, so where the team trades on partners capital and does close to one to 2 million trades on a daily basis on the Indian exchanges, so across asset classes, so that's been there, and it's a journey that we started almost 1617 years ago, and we have been part of this journey, where we started from the from the very beginning, you can say, and interestingly, it was also the very beginning of the domain in India. So, in India, 2008 is when algo trading was allowed, DMA basically for institutions was allowed in India, and 2009 is sometime around that we started, so so the domain grow, so our saw our own journey first hand, right, things that we did well, things that we didn't do well, things that we could learn from things that we could inspire from ourselves as well as others, so that's been there, and this session is largely going to be mix or mix of all those learnings which happened, right, so I was responsible for setting up the overall operations and overall business operations in our early days, and also got an opportunity to do that in for the global exchanges as well as was based in Mumbai, then in Singapore, and during that period, all that exposure that was, that was received by, by trying to set up the infra and business, basically for HFT and algo trading, so, so that kind of gives me some, gave me some insights, which I look forward to sharing with you all here, so with that background, let's get started. So this is the agenda for today's session. So what we are going to cover primarily is about different trading paradigms, very briefly from the perspective of how to go about setting up trading desk, right, so the paradigm definition, which can be helpful for us in going about that steps for starting an algo trading desk. So this is what will take our bulk of the sessions time today. Then we will also briefly look at the regulatory and compliance requirements, financial plan. How much money do you need to go about starting all of this right? And we are going to keep this session interactive, so I'm also willing to unmute if any one of you want to speak or would like to, or otherwise we can also take the questions on the Q and A panel, so that's there. I have pit stops after every couple of slides to dedicate it towards Q and A, so that we can keep the interactivity on, and yeah, learn through that process. So that's the idea, Shubham. Yeah, I was based earlier, right now. So, but no. So, from the trading point of view, we focus primarily only on in the Indian markets as of now, as the growth that we are seeing here. So, I think that has been a good journey. Okay. All right, so okay, cool. So that's there. So let's first get started with the trading paradigm. So, what are these different trading paradigms? So you keep on hearing words about LFT, MFT, HFT, and you would have heard it so many times during the EPAT program as well, right? So, and you would have heard many definitions of low frequency trading, mid frequency trading, high frequency trading.

Speaker 1  5:49  
The way we go about defining low frequency, mid frequency, high frequency, we are going to take a slightly different definition as what we see from the textbook, so the idea would be more of understanding it from the business point of view. So, what we have seen is that it really helps us a lot if we understand that if what kind of trading paradigm that we are going to pursue, what kind of business structure we are going to need for it, right, especially from the infrastructure point of view. So, in that, we find it useful to align it with the latency aspect. How much latency sensitive your strategy is? So, if your strategy is the performance of your strategy is going to go down dramatically by if you introduce a delay of, of, does not go down, if you introduce a delay of, say, a one second or hundreds of millisecond, then we talk about that. Okay, it's a low frequency trading strategy, does not need any dedicated high-speed infra. If your strategy's performance goes down dramatically, if the.. if you introduce the.. if you introduce a delay of few 100 milliseconds, but does not go down, the performance does not go down dramatically in case if you introduce a delay of a few milliseconds, so in that scenario we are talking about the mid frequency world, right? And if your strategy's performance goes down significantly by introduction of every additional microsecond, in that case we are talking about the realm of high frequency trading. Okay, this is our definition. Okay, and why does it work for us? Why it works for us is that the kind of infrastructure, the kind of regulatory environment, the kind of fund that you'll need, the kind of firm structure that you'll go for may vary significantly depending on where you are landing in this definition, right. And please do know that it is not something that low frequency is easy or high frequency is easy or difficult, or there is any progression towards it. No, it's just that you can find really, really massively big funds, big trading houses in each of these domains, right. It's more a function of that. How now, what kind of edges that you're going to need for it? Right, so it's not a progression that, okay, I will start with low frequency, then I'll go to mid frequency, then I go to high frequency now, so these are different trading paradigms in themselves. Okay, so so that's there now. Let's go for the next task section, which is setting up our desk, but before that I would like to know a couple of questions, some information that I would like to get from your end. So, couple of questions that you'll see. First question that you're seeing on your screen right now. Do you currently trade? So, keep it on for maybe another 10 seconds, do Okay, all right, so let me close the poll now. All right, can I share results? Yes, here it is. So, so, so, yeah, so about, about almost 70% who do all right of those who have, okay, all right, and another question that I will help me know. Better, how to structure this session is which is the key market that you currently trade in. If you trade in multiple markets, like the one that you are most active in: America, Asia, Australia, Europe, Africa, you Oh, sorry. Okay. Thank you, Ravin, for and Zubin and Shreyas for clarifying. So, yeah, I hope you can hear me now. Yeah, okay. Thank you. So, say, about a third from US and Americas, and about two thirds from Asia and Australia. Great, so that helps me, because what we are going to do is that we do have, we do have a plan in place for the session, but we'll, we keep it a bit flexible in terms of how we get the inputs, what kind of audiences there, right? So, what can be the best fitted inputs that we can share for this session? Because it's a very vast domain, right? So, we can keep on talking for 10 hours, 12 hours, it won't end, right? So, even the surface itself, so we need to make sure that we are getting some tangible value from the session, right?

Speaker 1  11:58  
So, so that this input helps me in doing that, and of course, that's why we also requested for all those questions at the beginning of the session, before the session, so the mail that many of you had shared on the email, so we also try to incorporate that and the session flow itself, so let's go to the next side, which is how to go about setting up our own desk. Okay, all right. So let's, let's get started on that. What do you think? What, what all things that that we would need to set up our own Elbow Desk. Would love to hear your thoughts on that. Anything that we need co-location for HFT. Okay, co-location setup entity, so entity trading entity infra, okay, infra legal computers and internet, okay, servers or rather hardware, internet. I will say network infra. Okay, venues, trading, okay, exchanges or trading destinations, resources, capital, people, talent is people infrared strategy org setup, I think trading entity, sure software. Yes, I will go trading software. Okay, connectivity to markets, so market access brokers that can be through brokers or directly through exchange. Yes, strategies. Yes, capital as license, that's in market access funds, that's in capital. Very decent strategy. Sure, risk parameters. Yes, risk management systems, data providers. Yes, need mark. market data.

Speaker 2  14:26  
Okay,

Speaker 1  14:29  
anything else. So, maybe, yeah, we'll add back office here, legal. and taxation. Let's add here. Okay, I think a decent laundry list. Yes, I agree. Yeah, I think this should be, this should be good to get good. With so, so, yeah, so I think it matches with what I also mostly have, most of these points, and the coming slides that will go one by one. If there is anything missing, we'll cover that, but no, I think everything is there. Okay, let's go for that. So, first thing is that setting up a company, I would say more of entity company has a technical meaning, so setting up a setting up in an entity. Okay, let's make it grammar correct. Okay, so what we are going to do is that we are trying to take examples from different geographies, right, multiple geographies. So we'll take from India, Singapore, US. Generally, we'll take one from the emerging market, one from developed market. The reason being that what we observed is that most of the rules regulate regulations and the market regulations, especially, are pretty much similar in emerging markets, and pretty much similar in the direct markets, but different if you compare between emerging and direct markets. One of the key reasons that we could understand was also because of the capital account convertibility for currency, so in direct markets that's generally a default. In emerging markets, that's generally not a default, right? So that percolates into different reasons and the way regulations and how the overall structures are being created. So take examples from one each for this, and for most of the things that we'll cover today, and so, yeah, so if you want to set up an entity, how do we go about that? So, setting up an entity is first thing, is that what are the different types of entities which can be there, so you can get started and start trading as an individual or proprietor. Okay, or you can create a partnership with like-minded people and have a partnership as a firm, right? Partnership firm, and trade on that, trade using that, or you can have a company, or some places called LLC, Limited Liability Company, or you can go for a LLP kind of structure. So, what does it mean? So, individual is essentially what you, what we generally do when we go in as a retail, we just open our individual account with the broker and start trading. Right, that's pretty straightforward. If you want to do with multiple people, as in multiple people want to come together and create a firm, then you go as a partnership, and both these things, the only key difference or key thing, it's really fast to get started, but both of them have the unlimited liability, right? So that's why hundreds of years ago there were these structures, which were created, called LLC, Limited Liability Company, right. In LLC, the idea is that in a business, the losses can go beyond what we put the money in the business as, right? So, losses or anything, not just trading losses, that can be from the business as well. So, by bringing in the limited liability concept, the idea was to separate the promoters from those business losses, right? So, promoters were liable only till the limit of their contribution, how much money they have put into the business, unless there was a fraud or some scam or something, which was done, in which case the corporate wheel, as it is called, the EIL wheel, that gets lifted, and then you promoter also liable, but other than that, in the regular course of business, the LLC limited liability company that remains the liability limit remains limited to the amount that they have contributed, so in case of companies it is the shareholding that they have bought into, right, so generally that's all there can be some other proxies as well, as well, for other structures, but that's what we, the most of the businesses, will go for, right? So you generally do not go for individual partnership, but more for company.

Speaker 1  19:33  
Now, the company, the benefit is that you get limited liability, but the con is that it is way more complex to manage and lot more regulations and compliance, which comes in, so the regulators across the world work with another structure called which kind of married the benefits of partnership with the benefits of company and to try to take away the drawbacks of each of them by creating a thing called limited liability part. Ship, so this is one of the most common common formats of for trading firms, especially globally. So, if you are professional, multiple professionals who are coming together and trying to run a business, a trading business, especially be it in LFT, MFT, HFT, whatever kind of business that is LLP is a preferred route, because the distribution of profits and running the business and changing the course of business, all those things are relatively easier in LLP as compared to a LLC. Obviously, if you are looking for a valuation business, that okay, we will do this, and then there will be a valuation. We'll list our entity, or we'll go for an IPO. Then LLP does not make sense, because there are no - there's no concept of shares in LLP. There is just a concept of contribution, that how much money you're contributing as a partner. And then you have a profit sharing ratio, right? If you want to go for valuation business, then you go for LLC. Generally, for most of the trading entities, the idea is to generate profits and not really go for valuation, so that's there very few trading companies, which are listed there, are but very few, but if you want to go for that, then you would convert to an LLC. Okay, so if you want to set up LLC or LLP in India. You typically will take a few weeks to set it up right. Minimum, there is there are generally two promoters, minimum, which are needed, but there is also a concept of OPC one person company, which has also been relatively recent, that you can get started right then. What you also can typically takes about 300 to 500 US dollar to get get started on it and set up a entity which can trade or open an account for trading. Okay, another way is if you're doing it in Singapore, so it will take few days to maybe few weeks, depending on what kind of capital that you are introducing into the firm, and you typically will be able to start off with $1 as a share capital, if you need, if you would like. The cost is approximately, if you are a Singapore local, then it will be 600 or $800 something like that, which you can get started with, but overall setup and everything that will cost generally will go in a few $1,000 especially if you are overseas or if you're overseas entity, in that case it can go into three to $5,000 to get started. Okay, so that's there, and this is if you are planning to trade for your own prop capital, but what about if you want to impact the decision of others, right? Or if you want to make or manage the money for others, right? So, which is maybe setting up a fund or going for some other structure. How do we go about that? So, there are multiple ways in which it can be done, so one is that you go for a research analyst kind of certification, which is more specific to India, or go for RIA kind of structure, which is global, so registered investment advisor, right, or you go for a structure in which you are a fund management company. So, typically you can be in India, there is a concept of PMS, portfolio management service, or you can have a hedge fund, or in India, or European, many European jurisdictions, hedge funds are also known as alternative investment funds, AIFs. All right, or you can go around and get yourself as a mutual fund, so there is a complete spectrum in which what you can do, and these obviously in specific locations you can see bit more, bit more kind of entities, and some differences in the definitions, right? So every jurisdiction can have their own set of jurisdictions and rules, but these are the broad, broad contours that should help you understand that.

Speaker 1  24:39  
How does generally most of the things go about it? So, RA, or research analyst, this is India specific, in which what you have is that you get the right to publish research reports and give, say, stock tips or something like that, right? So, investment tips, stock tips, so which can be, which can be done. You charge a fixed fee or something like that from your clients. You do not take any money, right? So you are just giving tips. Okay. The next is that you can also go and give trading advice as RIA, registered investment advisor, in which you can give a trading advice, buy this, sell this, buy now, sell now, do whatever with your clients, right? So all those things, which you can do, and you can charge a profit share, kind of ratio, right? So that is something that you can do in RIA, but you still do not take money in your own account. Okay. Next, there is also a concept called managed accounts, so some geographies, like in India, it's not, it's not clearly regulated or clearly allowed, and some geographies, like in US, and all, it is very clearly allowed. So, managed account is where you take the kind of power of attorney over someone else's account, right? The money remains in their account, but you are trading in their account, right, on their behalf. So that's called a managed account. Most of the CTAs, and all those things that you see in global markets, a lot of them go for managed account kind of setup. So the money is still not coming to you, but you have arrangement where you are able to make trading decisions on their behalf in their account, and then doing a profit share, or whatever commercial structure that you have with your clients. Another is fund management company, so these are the scenarios in which the money is coming to your account. Okay, and you are trading on that now there are few things on which it gets differentiated. First is the concept called pooling. Okay, pooling of capital. So, what is called pooling of capital? So, one is that pooling, so the you are trading, or you're taking money off someone else's from someone else to your fund, right, to your structure. One thing is that you keep the money segregated for each client, so for every client who has given you money, you keep it separate. The investment decisions, the trading decisions are done on a client level, right? So you do not mix the capital, so every client remains still separate. Every client's money still remains separate, right? And it is the contract note, or whatever that trading report, that gets generated for each and every client separately at the end of the day. Another aspect is in which you pool the capital, so people have given you money. You pool all of it, you treat it as one, and then you make trading decisions based on that. And then, whatever is the profit and loss, you distribute it proportionately to your clients who have given you money. So, whether you can pool or not, that's one aspect. Another is that whether you can market or not, right? So, how much marketing can you do? How much open marketing can you do, right? That's the second aspect. And the third aspect is that what kind of assets you can get involved in, so especially derivatives and all, and whether you can go short or not right, so shorting or buy only versus buy only. So these are some of the key things that you need to be aware of. That what are different kind of fund management companies, which are there, and which one do you want to go for depends on what all these things that you need. Okay, so for example, say in portfolio management service, this is specific to, like, not there in all the and all the countries, but they are also called LFMCs in some geographies, the long only funds, right? So what you do in this is that you are only trading equities, you're only your buy only long only right, and you are using derivatives only for the hedging purposes. Okay, there is generally a ticket size for so I think that's one other one. So ticket size. So, what is the ticket size of investment for your clients?

Speaker 1  29:23  
Okay, so generally there in these kind of structures, there is a ticket size, and you can, you can, but you keep it, money is kept segregated, segregated for each and every client. Another is hedge fund or AIF, in which you can pool the money, you can go long and short, both, and the ticket size generally in these scenarios is even more higher. So, for example, in some geographies it will be like, say, quarter million dollar. In some geographies, like in India, it's close to about 110,000 US dollars, like about 10. Million inr ticket size per client per minimum money that they need to invest, so all those things would be there. There is also a concept of accredited investors, so in some geographies AI, a yeah, AI is there, they are called in which they can invest even lower ticket sizes, lower than the ticket size that is prescribed, if they can showcase that they understand the markets, right? So, minimum net worth or minimum qualification, all those things which are there. So, that also varies from geography to geography, but other than that, otherwise it is generally a minimum ticket size, which is prescribed for each of these structures, but in this scenario you cannot really market right, so you cannot openly market that. Hey, I'm doing this strategy, here are the returns, and on social media or anywhere you cannot really do all those things right. So that's not generally not allowed, but you can do other things, you can do pooling, you can do multiple assets, you can do short or long or short, you can, and but then you, there will be a ticket size as well, so ticket size restriction is also there, so that's another way, another structure of in which you can take capital, if you say that no, I want to go and market to everyone and keep it open for each and every individual that I can get money from, and that scenario you go for mutual fund structure, but in mutual fund structure, you, you can do pulling, you can do marketing, but you can do generally, you only do long only or ETFs and stuff, and it's ticket sizes near like anything, maybe even $1 that you can start off with, right? So that's there, but they are heavily regulated, so in hedge funds the regulations would be way less, because you're not dealing with the regular joke, right? So, so regulators are generally concerned about you taking money from people who might be vulnerable, might not understand the markets that much. So, which can happen in mutual funds, like, so you see the billboards on the traffic on the.. when you're stuck in traffic, you can see so many billboards in across geographies, right, for mutual fund advertisements on the airports, on the railway stations, all of that. So, here the regulations are very, very tight on hedge fund side, you cannot see that, so that's not allowed. They are not allowed to market, they can only do closed, closed room pitch, and you, they can only, you know, give information to those who are seeking and who have that understanding. So, that's why you'll see on these websites, you will generally see the login. Once you log in, then you can see a lot of information. So, so it cannot be openly provided, the information. So that's there, so that's the range from here till here that you can go for, depending on how you're influencing the decision, just the decision and charging for that to actually taking decision on their behalf, to actually taking money pooling and trading as a fund, right, the cost varies accordingly. So this will be probably very, very cheap. This will be very, very expensive in terms of the cost of setup of fund, the net for that you need to have, right? So it can start off with maybe few 100, few $100 here and go all the way to probably to manage it, half a million to million dollar on an annual basis. How you about it? Okay, so that's pretty much there. And then there are some taxation aspects which can be managed there, if this is an area which you would like to go more deeper into.

Speaker 1  34:03  
There is a session in your EPA team resources on the LMS, which was taken by some of our friends in the fund management industry, who offer these services as well, right? So, set up service, and also they had broken down in each and everything, how the structure looks like, how the SAMC and the trust and all those things, which happens right. So, so, so you can check that out. That might give you interesting, some interesting inputs. And, of course, you can reach out to us, and we would be happy to assist anyways. Yeah, so give share our inputs if you need. Okay, so that's about it on this now. Let me take up the questions. I have a few questions here. Does Indian company allow law allow LLBs for trading and investment? Yes, it does. So. So, in fact, we ourselves are ILLP. IRA is also an LLP, but yes, we are the members also of the exchange. We are the brokers ourselves. So, that's there. Earlier, there was some confusion. So, in, so you are right on that part, that the company law was a company registrar was asking for NBFC license in case if you are trading on, if you're using LLP for with the primary objective of trading, even for I think companies as well, but LLP for sure some of the registrars. So now that has been clarified a month or two months back, there was a clarification in which RBI has said that up 2000 crores, so which is about 10 billion INR, so I would know that about 100 million, 100 $10 million US dollars, so up to that amount you do not need to go for NBFC, so you can have trade in LLPS, and you can do trading and investment on that, so you might want to check that out. Yeah, okay. So, yeah, okay. Rag bin is asking, in the Singapore context, what are the practical advantages in the trade-offs of setting up a company for prop trading using only personal capital, given the absence of capital gains tax for individuals, or the presence of corporate taxation, even for the corporate, so the capital gains is there as well, but yes, it can be counted under the business income in case if the primary objective is that, so yes, that is, I agree on that part, the key advantage generally remains the liability aspect, that limited liability versus liability, and if it is you're doing for your own personal trading, then I think that's okay. So that's there, but if you're doing it as a business, in that case generally it's a good idea to have it in a corporate structure, because there are so many things which can go wrong. It's not just the loss in the trading that can happen, there can be other things as well, which can come. Okay, in Mumbai, many relationship manager manage trade on behalf of brokers client, so if it is broker's dealer, so broker can take decisions by taking it consent on the on the recorded line, and all those things which are there, so that can be done, broker or sub broker, but otherwise, if you're talking about someone else, then no, but if you're talking about those broker relationship managers, then I guess so shares. Yeah, okay. So, Karthik, I think this question, which I just discussed and answered, right? So you can do that up to 1000 crore or about 100 and 10 million US dollars, that's not needed in the new, as per the new regulations, which has come in as a bigger way, right to start if I want a long term career. Yeah, so I think this is depends on what your, what your longer term goals are, or even shorter term goals are Deva Santosh, so, so, yeah, so I can help giving some inputs, of course, would love to if I know a bit more on that part. Okay, so thanks, Sabin. Can we please send you for looking for employment? How to plan their career and quantum long-term perspective.

Speaker 1  38:41  
Sure, Monica, then I think there are some sessions which are done as well. So, so, yeah, so I think we'll have that, and I would request the support team also to take a note. So we do keep doing sessions from the from the career team who hold specific sessions, we also have some guest sessions as well, time to time, for participants and alumni. So, so, yeah, so definitely we'll take a note of that. Rohit or Neeraj, can you please take a note?

Speaker 3  39:17  
Okay, any other

Speaker 1  39:22  
question? Questions all good, if yes, then we can move to the next step. Okay, so the next step is relatively simple, one which is Office Infra. So it was a big deal at one point of time, maybe 100 years ago, that where your office was, and you know, in the world of trading pits and all of that. Now it became remote electronic trading, then it became remote trading, and now I think with Covid. It went even deeper, where you know, remote offices and everything. Those remote work became popular, of course. If you are a regulated entity, then most of the regulators need your traders and dealing staff to be in, to be in office. So, so, so that's a different scenario, but, but, yeah, but otherwise, you can always go for the regular office infra, which is there from the algo trading point of view, you can be there, so from the, we can be anywhere, it does not really matter, to be honest, whether you are trading from the beach side or from the from the top of the mountain or from the Everest, till the time you have pretty solid network from there, yeah, but from the business aspect side there are certain certain reasons which makes it easier or better to be present in the, in the, in some of these jurisdictions, so like financial capitals, right? So financial capitals on different, in different markets, say New York, or London, or Singapore or Mumbai or Hong Kong, Dubai, right, Zereg, all these places, which are very, very have a active financial market scene, and the reason for that is that you have better availability of talent, right, so people are there, and they are generally looking for jobs in the, they have their lives settled there, so, so they are open to the more open to the to the places where they're already based, so you can get a good block of talent. Right, so if you are based over there, another thing is that most of the French institutions, banks, or exchanges? They are also based in these jurisdictions, so that way the it really, you know, that softer side of meeting up and having the know-how, all those things that also matters a bit. So these two re reasons makes it easier or better to have presence in the financial capital, capital areas, so generally that that helps. Okay, in this there's nothing much, so maybe for an office of three to five people that for three to six people when you are starting off, maybe, so you can go for office in the suburbs or don't need to be in the main city center, right, and it can be few, 500 to couple of $1,000 a month kind of scenario, depending on where and how you go about it, but, but, yeah, that's pretty much there. There is also a concept of, of course, remote offices, that's you are already aware, but what there is also there is that something called trading arcades, so you can actually go and take place in trading markets, where the things are already set for you, you just go and start, you know, log in and start trading. So, a lot of brokers offer this. Some of the third-party entities also do that by collaborating with many brokers, and they have those fat pipes and eight screens and all those things, which are there, which they're willing to offer on a fee. Okay, so that's pretty much about it. On the office infra side, next we are going to take up the market access. Yeah, so market access, that is, how do we get the access to the market? So, like we're saying that there was a time of where we used to be, the access was really, really difficult. You need to be the trading, then the trading was happening through the trading page, through the hand gestures and all. So just having that access was a massive edge in itself, that changed with the electronic trading as it became more and more popular. Now, obviously, there are no, hardly any trading bits, none of the major exchanges. I think, let me head the last one, which they have also closed down, I think, few years back.

Speaker 1  44:35  
So, so, yeah, so, so the access is easy, but there are many ways of getting that access, so one is that you either become your own broker, right, so your own member, or you can go through a broker. What are the benefits and challenges of each of that? So the. Benefits of one is obviously the challenge for other, and the challenge of other is a benefit for the other, right. So, let's just try to list down the benefits. If I go as a own membership, what are the benefits of going through my own membership? What do you think I Okay, secrecy, privacy, or okay, so bandwidth for us alone, okay, dedicated band width or dedicated infra, okay, low latency, okay, so order, okay. By ORM, I am assuming you're referring to order routing, is it or something else? What are the pre so the questions that you guys have shared, we will be covering that during the session itself, or whatever remaining will be covering at the end of the end of the session. Yeah, so that would be there. So don't worry about that. Otherwise, we'll try to go in the flow, right session flow, so whatever questions are getting covered there, we'll get covered there, but obviously whatever are not getting covered, we'll be covering them the towards the end of the session. Yeah, okay, decision you can make. I didn't get that one, you know, if you can share that own membership, low cost. Okay, low cost. So, all right. Order is management engine, okay? So, low latency, that will come under low latency. Sham, I think, right? So, okay. Anything else? So, yeah. yeah, so low cost, generally people go for better access, low latency, or you can say faster access, right? So that's there because of dedicated infra control, basically, right? So control, and, and yeah, and IP protection, so these are some really good points. Yes, I fully agree with you guys. Couple of things also, which can happen, right? So, which are there as well here, and that is the one of the key part is the risk counterparty risk okay, and another is a capital efficiency. So, what do you mean by capital counterparty risk? So, counterparty risk is that if the broker has done something messy and, and your capital goes at risk, right? So, that can be a challenge. So, say, for example, even our own case, we used to, as we expanded, we had our own trading membership, but we didn't have our clearing membership, so used to clear someone else. But then there was some event which happened, and that very top-tier clearing corporation, clearing member, that there was risk on of them getting insolvent, so at that time, then we realized that, okay, even that, even those really big players are difficult to be, you know, there are risks in even in that scenario, obviously everything got contained, contained, and nothing bad really happened for anyone in the market, but still that risk got highlighted, so we also took our own clearing membership. That's okay. We'll even the clearing part will do ourselves. So, so that is counterparty counterparty risk, right? So, your money is with someone else, then that risk. How do you manage that? So, so having your own membership can help reduce that risk, and then the next part is that capital efficiency, so you generally give your own capital for the cash that you give, right? So you're to your broker in most of the scenarios, or you give your shares as margin, right? So two of those things, but if you are a member, then there are other ways in which you can fund your margin, especially when it comes to derivative trading, and all, or margin trading, right? So you can give through fixed deposits, or G Sec, or even in certain geographies, you can even use bank guarantees, right. It's all those things, which enhances your returns drastically, right?

Speaker 1  50:05  
So, if you are able to use a bank guarantee, in that case, you can, so you are putting in 1 million of yours, and then you are getting a 1 million bank guarantee, then it is effectively 2 million that you are getting in margin, so, so your returns kind of get almost 2x right, so all those things also become very important, like in India now there are some action against the bank guarantee, so that's currently there are some news articles if you guys would have heard, but otherwise from where it is allowed, that's there, even if you're giving FDS, then at least that much, you know, few percentage points, you are getting extra, so that's your extra alpha, okay? So, so that's there, and yeah, I think not share that decision you can make. How quickly you can you act in case something goes wrong? Yes, yes, yes. So, better risk management, counterparty risk, or better risk management. Sure. Okay. All right. Great. Wonderful. What are the cons of it? So, the cons are obviously you need to pay a membership fees, right? So, that's there. There is a lot of compliance, lot of compliance that gets added, right? Compliance and regulatory burden, basically that the compliance burden, which might, which can come in, and yeah, so that's primarily the thing right, so these two are enough to be honest, and if you are, if you do not go and take membership unless you really need to, so when would you need to? If this becomes something which is extremely important for you, right, and there are no other ways of controlling it, or you're not getting proper access, fastest access, generally, that's not the scenario, because if you are that kind of player, then you can always have an arrangement with the broker where they can get you dedicated infrastructure and all those things, which can be possible, right, same thing, low cost, also generally you can get low cost from the broker if you're doing that kind of volume right, which can get impacted by this in certain geographies, especially in US. You also have categories of membership in which you have different type of exchange fees as well, so that can be, yes, definitely good incentive, so for your own membership, or if you have risk becomes a bit too high for you, your size is somewhere on those lines, or the capital efficiency, you're not getting that as a client, so all those reasons, and they are making at least two and a half to three times the impact in terms of at least the financial capital side in terms of these additional burdens that you'll be taking, then yes, otherwise no, otherwise it doesn't make sense to take a membership, but if these things are true, then yes, it definitely makes sense to go for your own membership, okay? On yeah, Zubin has shared, and Srimad also set up SOP. Yes, standard operating procedure that you need to set up here on risk regulations, talent you have to acquire in friend system cost deposits for various exchanges like exchange clearing house and margins. Yes, so I put all of that in one compliance, so yes, you're right, so all those things are there. Okay, all right, so that's there. Any questions around this on the membership? Another thing that I can also share is that this is the core business of the exchanges, so, so, if I go to, let me, I think my screen, you would be seeing is a different one, let me share

Speaker 2  54:20  
the, okay, do all right, so

Speaker 1  54:33  
okay, so Okay, yeah, so if you can see my screen, so say if I go to the exchanges website of NSC or CME Group over here, right, so. You can actually see all the details. This is a code business, as I said, so of the exchanges. So membership become a member, process and FAQs, eligibility fees, nepo deposit, net worth, all of those things that you can get right over there. Similarly, in terms of in case of CME, there also, if you go to the markets, you can see membership, so the all type of membership prices and all those things which are there. So, so this is this is something that you can find enough information. Different exchanges have different rules, so for example, in case of NSE, you pay to the exchange and there is some collateral that you need to maintain, some in cash format, some that you can give in non-cash format, right, and there are different types of membership as well, right, so, so that's there, so categories of membership over here, trading member, trading self-clearing, trading on clearing, proficient clearing, so all of that, which are there, and then there's normal and alpha, so if you want to do client business, then you can go for normal, or if you just want to do your own prop trading, in that case, you can do alpha, so the network requirement and all those things goes on the lower side. In case of CMA, it is more of the membership is kind of an asset, right? So you, it's traded, so over here, if you see, so this is the last sale, which happened last month, right? For CM membership, and then there is also a concept of lease, so you can also take membership on lease, because this is like pretty high amount, so almost half a million dollar that you need to pay, so you can also take it on lease, say per month, say 2000 2600 or whatever you negotiated with, and for a period of few months that you can take from the people who have their membership, so that also is a structure which you can work in. Yeah, so that's there, so you can get all the information, all of it over here. Okay, let's go back to the presentation. Any questions here? I see a few questions. I'll take them as well. Since you're a clearing member, and if any of the clearing member defaults, and the underlying risk losses are spread between the remaining clearing members, correct? No. So, generally, it's at the clearing corporation side, so they are responsible to manage that part. So, informally, what can happen is that if there is a fat finger or something like that, then you can have a situation where exchanges or clearing corporations are trying to catalyze those conversations that, if voluntarily, if they can agree on trade nullification, so, but that's more voluntary and relationship driven than anything else, so that's there, but otherwise, clearing corporations, they are managing that part, yeah, okay. Okay, do we need to get comment approval for algo codes? I'm assuming money, and then you're talking about Indian markets, so not government approval, but exchange approval for algo quotes. Depends on, we'll cover that in the, in the later, later section. So, yeah, okay, in the markets, like in tier investors, hold securities through center CDsl and STL, whereas in the US market, assets are typically held in broker accounts. How do the underlying custody structure differ between these systems? And what are the implications for ownership, come to body risk and investor production? So depends on how tightly regulated the ecosystem is. Right, so in India, given that they were especially till sometime back, and even today, there are 1000s and 1000s of brokers, right? So, if you look at even the list of clearing members or trading members, there is a big list, and for BSC, there is an even much bigger list, right. So, so that's been there. So, central depositories, the securities are held there, that makes a bit more alignment, gets a bit more alignment to how the structures are here, and another thing is that the trading, how it happens, so in India all the orders need to be matched at the exchange, right? In US, that's not the scenario, right? That's not the case.

Speaker 1  59:31  
So the broker can match them and even sell the order flow, which is done for the HFTs, and those HFTs can then trade them, and you know, get them settled on the exchange, right? So all those things, which are there, so that changes the overall strategies. How you execute all of that also gets changed in a very different way. So, like in US, you have, like, NBBU, and all. All those things, which are there, so you need to understand those aspects as well. So each and every market has their own nuances, right? If you're doing intraday trading in stocks or stock options, and in US, then equities, basically not on the index, but equities, then on that side you also have the concepts of patent day traders and all those things, right? So if you are doing more than four intraday trades and five days or something like that, in that case, then you need to have minimum x amount of margin, about $25,000 or something. Although they are now re looking at it this month, so they were looking at it, I think, couple of months back, then they had extended it, that look, I think that Finra is looking at it, so next month I think they have something coming, or this month they have expected to get some changes on that, but yeah, so those nuances there for for each and every market, as you rightly pointed, yeah, I hope that answers your question, I understand it's a very vast point, but I hope you got what the input that you're looking for, Raghavendra. Yes, wonderful, thanks. Thanks, Raghav. Okay, all right, so now the next is about so broker access, obviously this becomes the cons and these becomes a pro for them, right? The key party, a key thing here is also comes from the FX side, so in case if you are trading FX, now the thing is that either you are trading FX on the exchange, in which case that's okay, that's pretty much that's same rules as what equities or derivatives apply, but most of the FX trading does not happen on the exchanges, a lot of it happens on the CFDs and CFD platforms, so that's why I have this additional bullet point here. Actually, additional bullet point, initially it was more because of the prime clearing and prime broking services that used to be there for for trading the interbank markets right, so that was ever that offering has gone down drastically after the in the last over the last 10 years or so, so so now it is because of that Swiss National Bank crisis that had happened, so that so the the removal of the dealignment of Swiss franc, where the euro at that time that had happened, which had got massive volatility, and all those things actually went down a bit. The prime broking and prime clearing services, which used to be offered by the banks, that that was the reason why I had added this bullet point, but later on it transitioned more towards that. Okay, so much, so many of CFDs, and that volume had been expanding so much, and then the crypto has also entered into the space. So, so what we generally recommend is that there are two, three things that you need to be aware of when you are dealing with these platforms, first is the segregation level, right? So that's there. Second is the regulator regulator, who is the regulator, right? So, and third is the background checks, so these three things generally help. So, first is segregation level, which is in these platforms. Their segregation can be happening at two levels. One is where segregation is done at the client level. Each and every client's money is kept separate, so if one client blows up, then it does not impact the account of other client. Another is that the client versus prop segregation, so a lot of these brokers, and they CFD, especially many of them, also take positions against the client, so they do not cover back to back, so they run a book. Assumption is that clients are in effect, so most of the people do lose money, so they will eventually lose money. So, why cover? Why just turn the spread when you can have the entire capital with you, right? So, over a period of time, so that's the thought.

Speaker 1  1:04:35  
And they manage that, do not, obviously, do not run it blindly, hopefully, but, but yes, a lot of time they are running the position against you if you're trading with them, so in that case there is no segregation of the prop versus client as well. So, if their prop activity, which is these positions that they are taking, blows up, then your money is at risk, right? So, you need to check whether how is. Segregation level, so I do not expect that you will find much many CFDs who are doing client level segregation. If they do, great, but at least you must ensure that the prop and the client level segregation is there, right? So, prop and client between that second is that who is the regulator? So, in case if something goes wrong, then who is the regulator? Now, the thing is that they, the what will be showcased to you on the website, is likely to be the regulator, who is very well trustworthy regulator, right? The problem is that when you go into the TNC of the firm of the website on the website itself, then it will, or when you're opening the account, then it will say that, okay, at the seventh point or eight point, or sometime somewhere like that, that this is going to be at this tax haven, and they will be running this, and all the account and all those things will be transferred to them, so which means that, and those tax havens, most of them do not have any, any regulatory cover, per se. Okay, so if something goes wrong, you do not have any recourse to get back your capital. So that's the second point that you need to keep a check on. Who is the real regulator? What is the actual entity that that you're opening an account with, okay, and background check in terms of who are the people behind it, right? So, so they're a world check, a few other things, which are there, which gives you a basic background check, that criminal background, and all of that. So that's there. So, because I understand that a lot of people do find FX or CFD trading more meaningful, more amazing, but many of much of it also operate in the in different shades, some are fully legitimate, some are not so legitimate, some are totally legitimate, divide, right, so, so because the regulatory cover is different for them, so these things are generally helpful if you have these things in check. Okay, alright, so yeah, and as FX legal in India, so no, so without underlying no, so you need to have an underlying, so CFDs, and all of that. No, not really. Yeah, most of the broker outside of India keep security and trading fund at broker, and not at client customer. Most of the broker outside of India keep security and trading fund at broker, and and not a client, customer. I don't know that varies from broker to broker. As I said, that there are some who are fully legit, some who are not, even among those who are not keeping your, or keeping their prop, and client not segregated, does not make, make it illegitimate, right? So, maybe the regulations allowing it, but you need to know, you need to be aware that your money is at risk in those scenarios. Yeah, shares, I cannot comment on individual companies, but understand that they are legit, they may be legit, but ultimately it's the question, is that where? So, probably in US they are not allowed, right, but maybe in some other country they are allowed, so so it depends. Yeah, so you just need to check Google one line, I think they will get the answer on that for that, but for that entity in that jurisdiction, so that's the combination that you need to look at. Yeah, now I hope that answers. Let me know if it doesn't. Oh, okay. Any other questions? FII, we still have manual trading and fixed income trading. All the trading for FIA is increasing at a rapid pace, if there is a large size block deal that typically happens with sales trade in our bank for fixed income trade, of course. Banks, so one place where I believe that AI is will take a lot of time in making an impact in terms of how things move.

Speaker 1  1:09:18  
Obviously, at the back end, they will, they are already adopting it, but that places banks, of course, because all of these things, micro seconds, and all of that, that we are discussing about, most of the banks do not do that right, so their edges are different, so their flow, their size, their balance sheets, all those things are is what makes their edges, and they do not really need to go for that. Most of the banks, I'm aware that even the on the Reuters dealing or on the voice trades or through the brokers, manual brokers, all of that, that's there. So, but yes, a lot of FX has been changing, so the lot of FX. Uh, trading still happens, but still I think the big blocks and the client side and all those things, that's still the same manual at the best in some very few cases where you see automation stuff, so so that's their sale. Okay, Ravind, I hope that's that comments aligns. Yes, sir, when I lot of very good friends keep praising and cribbing about the same these facts. Yeah, okay, cool. All right. Any other questions? Okay, all right. So, let's move to the next part, and after this, maybe we can take a break. Yeah. So, or you want to break right now. Oh, sorry, I don't have a poll for this. I could have asked you right away, but maybe first, whoever, whatever side we get more, yes or no. So, should we have break now or after 15 minutes, whatever the majority says, then first five months after, oh, wow, we got everyone is after 15 minutes. Cool, perfect. Let's, let's continue that. All right, okay. Thanks. Cool. So, so next is the physical trading infrastructure, right? So this photograph over here is a symbolic pick for a data center, right. We let's say that these this data center is actually a exchange co-location facility. Okay. All right, so first of all, what really is exchange co-location? I think I have a poll on that, not share screen, but the poll screen. Okay, what is exchange co-location? Keeping server in the building next to the exchange, keeping server in the same building as of the exchange, keeping server on the same network as of the exchange, all right. I'll end the poll in five seconds.

Speaker 2  1:12:41  
Okay, let's

Speaker 1  1:12:51  
okay, good. Now, yeah, all right. So, I think most of you got it right, which is keeping server on the same network. Now you can also, so the in certain geographies you will have a scenario where the exchanges, the regulations do not allow exchange collocation. Right, like even in India, you have for equity markets co-location is allowed, but for commodities it is not allowed, right? So, what you will do is that you can have the server in the building, nearby building, right? So, whoever is offering the data centers crop up just as close to the exchange as possible, so that's called proximity hosting, right? So, that's not co-location, even if it is in the same building, but it's not the same network, then in that case it is still the proximity hosting only. All right, okay, cool. So now the interesting thing that we would love to understand here is let's assume that this blue thing over here is the matching engine, and this, these are the different tracks. Now, mind you, these facilities are quite big. So, if I go to.. actually, let me share screen. if I go to maps, I a Google Maps, and if we go to say CME data center in Aurora over here, so this is there, and this is if you see this 100 meter is this much, these are reasonably big, hundreds of meters long, right. So, so it's a reasonably big place, right. So, what that means is that someone who is over here near the matching engine can have a distinct advantage in terms of latency as compared to someone over here. And every nanosecond also counts, not just microsecond, right? So this will easily make a big difference. So, what do you think exchanges do to make sure that this excess is consistent, as uniform, and no one is getting it? No, none of these racks are getting a different, different latency. What do you think? What is what can be the typical solution for handling this multicasting? Okay, okay. What do you mean by cable, Manjula? Right, Ajay, you are correct. So, yeah, so it's essentially what is done is that the data gets length of cable, correct? Yes, that's correct. So, so the length of cable is what matters, right? Because the distance does not matter, but the communication or the data is flowing through the cable here. So, in that scenario, if the length of the cable is same, so everyone is to every rack. So, in that case, every rack is going to take the same amount of time in ensuring that the data is reaching over there, so say yes, that's how it has done. Few things that need to be aware of is that in, okay, let's add text box here, okay, so, so few things on from the co-location perspective. One is the space is limited, okay. So, what that means is that in most of the co-location facilities, so when India started co-location, Indian exchanges started to offer collocation facility. Some of the big global investment banks, they had come and they had bid for all the spaces, right. So, because if you have all the co-location facility for yourself, then there's a massive edge, I say no one else can get. So, obviously that wasn't allowed, but but what it means is that you cannot get unlimited space. It is very unlikely that you'll get unlimited space. So, that means that you need to make sure that you're utilizing it for the right reasons, right, for the right reasons, as in what kind of latency you're really needing. If you're ultra low latency strategies, in that case, yes, you would probably be using it sparingly. The, you will be wasting a lot of, likely to waste a lot of space, right, because you don't want to add too much load there. But if it is for the medium high frequencies, so like you are not like fighting for every, like your fight is not in nanoseconds, but in microseconds. In that case, you can even go for some of the infrastructure, the kind of servers, and everything that you can go for, which is more space efficient. So that's one that one of the things that needs to be taken care of.

Speaker 1  1:18:16  
Second is that power, electric power, so that's also something which can be limited, so how much power you're drawing, and that can also define be a defining factor in what kind of hardware you are going to keep, or how you're going to manage that. So, in co-location, there are typically in one rack, there are one, yeah, one rack. There are about 42 units, right? So, 42 units in most of them. So, in 42 units, technically, theoretically, you can say that, okay, one unit server unit is basically breadth, length, height, so it's a defined dimension, which is used by the hardware firms globally, so that the servers can be placed in these racks and data centers, clouds, clouds, and co-locations, and all of that with a very predefined, in a predefined dimension, right? So, so that dimension is already defined globally, and that is respected by everyone, so that's the u1 u1 unit, so 1u server would mean that, okay, this is something like this much, this length, this red, this height, yeah, so that's the two unit server will be two units, three unit server will be three units, so and so forth, so technically, theoretically, you can have 40 unit servers, one unit servers over there, but that does not happen right, because the kind of power that it will need, so rack servers or those servers, if they are there, then that becomes a limitation factor, so you need to be aware of that, and the fourth thing is that the network. Ham, so network in terms of how the how you can access it, so many co-location facilities do not allow internet, some allow internet, but with VPN, and some, some allow it fully, so, so that's something which you need to be aware of, that how you are going to access the co-location facility, and fourth thing is that there is something called co-location as a service, or third-party vendors who provide co-location as a service as well. So, in which scenario, what happens is that these can be quite premium and expensive spaces, so in CME, for example, the cost of co-location one rack would be about $15,000 a month, right? So that can be a significant amount. Also, if you don't need that much space, you can just take 1u or 2u If you just have to put one server, you can ask for that, and that you can get for probably $500,000 a month, right? So, from a third-party vendor, so that's there in certain geographies that is not allowed, like in India, you can only have full rack or half rack or quarter racks, and that too is only for the member, so if you're a client, then you need to go through the member. There's a gas service here as well, but I think largely it's more popular with the through the brokers, so yeah, so that's pretty much what I had to say about co-location, the pricing that I mentioned, that is for CME, for India, it is actually much cheaper, so that's close to about less than $15,000 a year, so almost less than 12 times cheaper as compared to CME. So, yeah, so that's pretty much it on co-location. Any other questions, I All good. If yes, then let's take a break here for 12 minutes, and we'll be back at 5:30pm ISD. Yeah, all right. Okay, and once we reconvene, we'll go through any questions that you, if you have, you can just drop it on the chat right now as well, and we'll take them up before we move forward. All right. Okay. See you in 12 minutes. Thank you. Bye bye. Back, so we you can hear me, I Hello, everyone. Welcome back. Before we start back, can someone please confirm if you can hear me, see me, and if you can see my screen, I Okay, all right. Wonderful, thank you so much, everyone, for confirming. Great. Okay, so welcome back, and I hope you had a refreshing break. So, before we start back, let me quickly recap what we have done so far today, so we, the agenda for today's session remains as covering different trading paradigms, understanding it from the perspective of how to go about setting up our own infrastructure, our own desk, our own algo trading desk.

Speaker 1  1:26:56  
Then we were looking at steps for starting an algorithm trading desk, and later on we also intend to look at regulatory and compliance requirements, and the financial plan. So, in terms of trading paradigms, we figured that we would like to keep our alignment definition, alignment with latency, so few 100 milliseconds or more, we are saying if the strategy performance gets deteriorated, if we introduce a latency delay of 100 millisecond or more, then we are saying that, okay, we are in the low frequency trading world. If it is few milliseconds, which is causing deterioration in the strategy's performance, then we are saying mid frequency, and if it is every microsecond, in that case, high frequency trading, so these were this was a laundry list that we created together over here, and then we went on about understanding how to go about setting up an entity, what kind of entities which are possible, and if you want to go about influencing or trading or managing other people's fund. In that case, what are the possible ways of doing that? We also looked at the office infrastructure and remote offices and trading arcades aspect, which remains there in many of the markets, and the ways of accessing the market, so market access either through our own membership or through the brokers. What are the benefits, and what are the pros and the cons for that? And also briefly looked at the FX aspect of it, the CFDs, and also then how do we go about what are the things that we can probably be extra careful about to ensure that we are more relatively more vigilant towards our capital that we are giving on these destinations, and we looked at the co-location aspect, so we saw that how it is structured and the restrictions in terms of space or power that we have, and also the network access, which varies, and how we can get it from third-party vendors as well, as well as in certain cases only through exchanges or as a member of the exchange. Another thing to add here is that co-location is effectively needed for the scenarios where your strategy is latency sensitive, so in HFT domain almost every strategy, by definition, how we have defined also just now, they are all very, very latency sensitive, so co-location is a must, is not a, is not enough criteria, but it's a basic criteria, but that is only if you are doing HFT, which is your strategy's performance gets impacted if we add a few microseconds delay in your strategy. Execution right, micro second is most, so to put things in perspective, most of the retail brokers, when they are giving you API access and all of that in the retail ecosystem, it's best case scenario is few 10s of millisecond, so micro second, and that's essentially almost few 10,000 to few 100,000 times slower. Okay, so you need to be very careful about when using the word HFT in our discussion over here, right? So obviously there is no universal definition, so you can use the way you want anywhere, but here we try to be a bit more specific, so for medium frequency strategies, co-location may be needed, may not be needed in certain, so like for the fastest medium frequency rating strategies, so where a few milliseconds matter. Yes, co-location may still be a requirement, but beyond that, co-location per se, from the speed point of view is not needed. Okay, all right. So, so that's that's pretty much what we have covered so far. That's a recap, and let's look at the network infrastructure side now. So, in network infrastructure, there are three, four reasons why we need the why we need these cables or these connectivities, right? So one is to get the market data or some or some other alternative data, whatever kind of data that we are getting for system. So for that we need dedicated, we may need a dedicated line. Most of the exchanges offer tick by tick data, most of the big exchanges, especially they do give tick by tick data. So, what's the difference? Difference being that in snapshot data, what Rajiv would have covered in TIO 01 session. So, in snapshot data, you get snapshot of what's happening at the exchange or in the order book few times every second, right.

Speaker 1  1:32:01  
So it's not complete information, and tick by tick data, you're getting each and every update as and when it is happening, right. So that's the, that's the tick by tick data, and for that, generally, you would need a dedicated line. The cost can vary in some geographies, brokers are allowed to give the data for free to their clients, including techmatic data. So, if your broker is kind-hearted saint who would like to give you free data, they would be probably allowed to give that, right? But yes, it's costly for them as well, so they might charge market data generally, so there are these are three main earning sources for the exchanges. One is through orders, so when they are charging the exchange fees that they are charging. Second is generally either the co-location charges or the market data charges, right? So it's a reasonable sized for this connectivity and all, so it's a reasonable revenue bucket item, right? So, so market data, yes, it can be expensive, but if you are the member of the exchange, it is generally at the lower end side, so if you're a member of the exchange, you can either get it for free from the exchange, depending on what kind of data, or maybe, like in India, it will be maybe $1,000 or so for a year, right, for us, for CME, for certain European exchanges, also, what you have is a black box fees, also for the market data, which is there. So, if you're using it for algorithms, in that case, there is an additional surcharge, which is charged, so, which can be few 100 to few $1,000 a month. So, that's been there. Yeah. So, yeah, so that's on the market data aspect. Another side is on the order routing, so on the order routing, it's more a function of how many orders you're sending out every second, right? So, in CME, they have this 1500 orders per three second rolling window, right in NSC, you have this up to 1000 orders per second lines, which are there. I think they're planning to introduce more also, but, but yeah, that's there. So, so you pay a fee to the exchange for those lines, right? How fat the line is, and how many? What is the limit in terms of orders per second, or messages per second, is the more technically correct term. So, messages include new order, cancelation message, or modification message, all those things that you're sending. So, that's included in that. So, so, yeah, so it's for. High frequency rating firms, this is a very big ticket expense item. Market data, not so much, but order routing generally is a lot, because even a mid-tier firm would send few 10 million to few 100 million orders on a daily basis. So, you can imagine that how many lines they will be needing for that. So, that's there, and the third aspect is for which you need network infrastructure, is for the point to point connectivity, which is accessing the servers, right? So, where you, your server side, in the co-location, internet is not allowed, then you, how do you access the servers? You have point to point connectivity, so that's a low expense item budget item, right. Because these lines do not cost much, it will be a few $100 a year if you're in the same city. What really can break the bill, though, is if you are into the low latency arbitrage, so you want free money, right? You want to get risk-free money from the markets, so that risk-free money is very expensive, right?

Speaker 1  1:36:06  
So you need to get into the rat race of the lowest latency line, and it's not just the fiber optic line, it's microwave, and then now these days laser, so it ranges from few $1,000 a month to it can go to few million dollars a month, so that's the range that it operates in, depending on every micro second or every millisecond that gets shaven, and every micro second also, in case if it is the same city between the same city, so there is a massive expense which comes in, so if you are in the, if you're seeing in your research, that okay, there are some variations that I'm seeing in the market data, and I would like to make an arbitrage in a big market, and please know that there are a lot of firms which are focusing explicitly on that and have dedicated infrastructure for that, so that's for the newer exchanges for the smaller markets. Yes, it can be an interesting strategy to look at, because there it is generally not very, you know, not - it does not make much business sense for big firms to deploy resources there, so that's there, so yeah, so that's that's on the network infra side. Any questions you have here so far, I Okay, so next aspect is the hardware infra. So, in the hardware infra, what we typically need are the servers, the routers, the switches, and all of that, right? So now servers, when it comes to servers for medium frequency and high frequency trading. If you're on low frequency, then it is the cloud clouds that you can directly access and maintain your servers in, or you can even do it in your own systems, but generally it is better to do it on the cloud for low frequency systems, redundancies, and you can do a lot more over there, but for medium frequency and for high frequency, especially, then you generally go for different types of servers, so what kind of servers do you would you be generally going for? So let's go and try to search for that. Okay, so if we go for the servers where we many different types of servers. One is, of course, the rack servers. So, these are the servers which are most relevant for most of the high frequency trading use cases, right? So, they are in one unit, two unit, three unit, four unit, one year, two unit four units, so this is like two units rack server, right? So this is this much thick, so it would have been one unit would be this much, right? So that's what it would be now. These rack servers, why, why is it good for high frequency trading firms is because these rack servers allow for a lot of modifications, so the clock speed that you can change, or the the the internet drivers that you can change, right, sign IC cards and all, so in which you have the highest source of latency, essentially. So, you have these specific Ethernet cards, which comes in, like Solar Flare and other companies, which provide that the cut down on latency in terms of the micros or below micro seconds. So, they are a very significant source of latency reduction, right? So. All those things can be done in rack servers generally, but not as much on the blade servers, but so what is the blade server? Blade server is something more like this. So there is a chassis, right, and in each chassis you can put up to 16 servers, right? So you can fit one chassis in like quarter rack, right? So if you are space conscious, in that case, better to go for the blade server. If you are performance conscious, in that case, you generally go for the rack server. Okay, then there are a few other types as well, but this is, I think, without going into too much today, I think they should discover what we are trying to convey about the impact of different types of servers on performance versus space management and power management as well, right? So they have less power requirement as well. So if you are in the client business, or where the you do not are extremely late in sensitive, then it is okay to go for blade servers as well.

Speaker 1  1:40:57  
Okay, so this is what I was talking about this Ethernet card, so this.. oh, sorry, I need to change the screen here. Okay, so yeah, so this is what I was talking about, this.. this thing over here, the Ethernet cards, right? So, where you plug in your LAN card land card, okay? And then there is something called switches, as well, so these are another expensive piece, which is there, so it's not expensive, and it is for not low latency, so one gig switch, all those things, which are relatively very cheap, but as you go for 10 gig switch and beyond, then I think it becomes very, very expensive, right, so almost 10x more expensive as compared to 10x to 20x more expensive as compared to one gig switches. The benefits are that you can further program these switches, are programmable, so you can even program your strategies on, or even the network. A lot of things that can be done on the programmable switches directly as well, so lot of network latency and other latency sources also get cut down, so yeah, so that's there. If you want to go deeper into this, you can just obviously let us know. It's because then if you go into the high frequency, VAM, there this is a base, and then obviously need to go a bit deeper than that as well, so, so, yeah, so, so, if, unless you are going for high frequency and going deeper into it, then it would make sense, so would definitely be happy to give inputs, but, yeah, from the top layer, I think this should be good. Next piece that we would like to have is that the algorithmic trading platform, so there are you can break it down into primarily four ways in which you can get algorithm trading platform. Now, with AI, it will, it will be overlap of all of them, but first thing was that where the brokers are offering the algorithmic trading platform, right? So, through their API or through their ready-made systems, which they can offer, so they are generally very cheap, free or very cheap, like maybe few, $10 a month, right? So, something like that. Then there are vendor-based platforms, so broker platforms, these are generally on the on the cloud itself, right? So the latency would be typically in hundreds of milliseconds, right. Another is where you go for specific vendors, medium frequency vendors and others, or do frequency vendors who offer their platform, and they can go up to like few milliseconds in latency, and they can offer you for few $100 a month, kind of thing, right? Then you have high frequency vendors, right? So the high frequency vendors, in which they will be offering the HFT platforms, very few vendors are there. The reason being that most of the HFTs, since speed is an edge, so they have it in house, so if you have got it, then you don't share it with others, right? So that's there, but yes, there are a few vendors, and they would be able to offer you latency of few 100 microseconds, and certain cases it can go up to few 10 microseconds. If you want to go in single digit microsecond, typically it's done through your own in-house algo trading platform, HFT platform, and if you want to go below sub one micro second, which is where most of the HFT players are today in the leading geographies, so then you go for FPGA platforms or ASIC platforms. So, what it means is FPGA is like field programmable gateway arrays, so those of you from the electronic engineering background might remember their courage days, or those who of you are working in this domain still. So, in this, what happens is that everything adds to the latency, right? So, if you are even when I'm speaking, nothing is live, right? So, even when I'm speaking, it's going through so many channels, so many communication channels, and the intel. Net, and all that, so there is a reasonable amount of at least a few millisecond delay, right? And maybe a few 100 millisecond delay for some of you by the time I'm speaking to, by the time you are hearing me. So even operating system takes some time to process things.

Speaker 1  1:45:16  
So in FPGA, what you're doing is that you are removing the operating system itself, and you're coding the adapters and everything directly on the FPGA layer, on the hardware layer itself, right. So, what Rajiv would have covered in the IU 01 this diagram over here, so that's there. So, from broker, so Shreya says, like most of the brokers would be few 10 milliseconds, typically at least, right. So, for brokers API included for the retail, I'm saying, and to this some micro second, so that varies, so this is few $100 to this would be few $1,000 a month, and this can be more on few 100,000 to 2 million, depending on generally it is in house, so there are some firms which offer it, but typically there is a lot of in-house stuff that needs to be done here. Okay, so that's on the Algo trading platform. So, for low frequency to ultra high frequency that we have, so that covers the HFT aspect over for the last two three slides, which were more heavy on HFT, I would say, right? So, so any questions? So, yeah, so shares, yes, typically, as I said, that it will be typically one, a few 10 milliseconds is what my experience has been, but yes, it varies from broker to broker. Any other questions? We are good. Okay, so the next part is risk management that you guys had also shared in the, in our initial list, right? So, risk management, obviously, we have covered, and there are a few questions in the from the portfolio risk management perspective, and the questions that some of you have shared as well, and this, I think, a lot of stuff that we get that gets covered in the PRM 01 PRM 02 sessions. What, what I love to reiterate here is the fact that in automation, when you're doing automation, while the counterparty risk or the market risk, credit risk, all those things still remain. That's there, but the biggest risk that you have when you're automating stuff is of the operational risk, right? So the operational risk, in terms of say this example here, which is if some some municipality work is going on and you are in some arbitrage strategy or cross-exchange strategy, and it's in medium frequency, it's not higher frequency, you're not in co-location, but you're sending orders from your office, but some municipality work is going on, and the fiber optic cable is cut right, and you're getting data for one of the exchanges, for another exchange you're not getting data, and you still are sending out orders randomly, right? So, based on some stale data, because new data is not flowing in, and if your system is not built to test for the operational risk aspects, right, so it's a very easy road to bankruptcy, like so many case studies that you saw in the NPRM 02 session so those things are very, very, can be very dangerous, right? So there are many ways of, like, for this particular scenario, there are many ways of handling that. So one is that, okay, you handle it in the strategy itself, that okay, if there are no changes in market data till this sign, then stop, right? Then there are changes that you can do monitor at the technology layer level itself within your own technology, which is, say, keep on checking for the socket connection. If the socket connection is down, then you know that the connection is down, or with the exchange, so you have these fixed heartbeats that keeps on getting exchanged between the lines, so those fixed messages that come to you in your adapter, right? So your exchange also helps you know that whether you are connected or not, or even if you, it did happen, and you have sent out orders, or for whatever reasons, then there are functionalities like cod, cancel on disconnect, which are offered by many exchanges, that okay, if you are, if the exchange gets to know that you are disconnected because those heartbeats are not getting exchanged between the connection at your end and then the exchanges end, an exchange will cancel all your orders, right? So you have that pre-auth given, pre-auth authorization that is given to the exchange, so all those things.

Speaker 1  1:49:59  
Becomes part of how you manage your operational risks, so that's very, very important, and obviously would request you to give extra attention to that PRM zero and 02 session. It's not just important to make money, but also how you safeguard that money, and as we understand, as we expand, you realize that that is the one of the only ways of making money, right, maintaining and managing your risk. Okay, so that's there. See, a question: if you're planning to move into HFT, is what type of knowledge to develop in addition to keep that? I think what we're discussing right now that forms a good base, a lot of stuff, Tiu 01 as well as in the, as well as in the MMT module. What we covered, so a lot of stuff is very relevant from HFT space point of view. So that's the good starting point, and, and, yeah, then there are some good books, which are there, the Dr. Larry Harris trading and exchanges, and few other books that you can check out, and then there are a lot of other sessions also you can see in EPA, so that will also be can also be helpful. Yeah, given how capital-intensive HFT infrastructure is, would it be, make sense to first focus on developing profitable strategy and approving their performance, and then seek investor funding to scale to build our HFT trading firm? Yes, of course. So, you, you can get investor fund funding, or you can tie up with some broker, or some fund. So, there are many ways in which you can approach this. The key thing to answer here is that what are you bringing to the table? Right, so when you're going in as an individual professional, so then you have to figure out that, okay, what are you bringing to the table, and how it can be different from a employee employer relationship versus entrepreneurial relationship. If you are exploring, or if you, it's a team, you're a team, then it's different dynamic. And if you have resources tied with you, so then it's a different dynamic. So, depends what you are bringing to the deal, what you're seeking, and that can define how you go about managing, or how you go about strategizing the infra building aspect. Yeah, hope that answers your question. Agree. Okay, any other questions before you move forward. Okay, as per new Saeed Circular, how to set static IP for self-managing firm membership. Oh, so you, if you are a member yourself, then you don't really need to go for that part, because there is algo trading regulations guidelines were already existing. This is for the retail who are going through a broker, right? So, for that, the static IP and all these things are there. Otherwise, for brokers who are doing algo trading in their prop, they already had, they have much more stringent requirements than static hyper, right? So you anyways have to have point to point lines and colo, if you have, or the dedicated trading lease lines, all those things have to be there. Yeah, what we covered in that auto routing sale network infra slide. Okay, sure. In case if you are referring to the retail, then yes, then you just need to get a static IP, which you can get from many vendors who are there, or IP providers, so that can be taken, and then you are running your strategy from from there. If you're using a third party vendor in the third party platform, in that case, the third party platform need to help you with that. If you're directly going and trading through the broker API, in that case, you just need to get the static IP from the vendors, and yeah, and then then that should be that should be helpful for you to get going, and if it is less than 10 orders per second, in that case you don't even need to take the approval, right? So you can just trade directly. Cool. Okay. Thanks. Thanks, Shiva. Great. Okay. Any other questions? Okay, so the next part is that, how do we go about the the team building aspect, right? So, how many people do we really need, so.

Speaker 1  1:54:59  
Technically, just one person can also do it right, so you know everything, and it can be done, but so that's a theoretical answer, but that's not practical answer, because you only have 24 hours, and there are n number of things that you need to run in a business, so right from building all those things that we discussed, right from setting up an entity to managing that to the admin and operations to actually building the strategy to actually building the infrastructure, the technology, the trading platform, managing work, getting it from the third party or building it yourself and managing it at your end, whichever way it is, right, researching then risk management, liaisoning with the banks, with the exchanges, all of those things do take time, right, and often needs complementary skills, right. So, so typically for HFT startup, what we have seen is three to six people team, which generally helps in getting started. Obviously, in that you still need to have like multiple people donning multiple hats. Ideally, it's better if risk manager is different, the, the, the other strategy builder is different, the data is different, but, but still, that's generally not how you start, right? So, so it might be that multiple people, multiple hats that you are donning, but yeah, minimum three to six people generally helps. Now, these people can be quite expensive, so unless you have a lot of resources at your hand, then you can go ahead and hire, but otherwise it's easier to partner. Another good thing that can come out from partnership is that instead of hiring is that when you are building, when you're starting off, things often go a bit on the wrong side, right? So, but the challenges are more likely to occur when you're starting off, so if people have skin in the game and shot at the upside, then going through that together becomes more probable, right? So that's one second is of the IP aspect as well, because there's so much to be built if you try to silo the development parts or the strategy, it's difficult to break down strategy parts to product IP, right? So the IP is visible to almost most of the people who are working right on that aspect, so then the then the risk of IP leakage is also higher, so so yeah, so that phase, if, when you're just starting off partnering with like-minded people, I think that can be a more likely helpful scenario as compared to hiring only mode. Yeah, so that's there. Okay, so any questions? So, do banks provide loan for HFT? Generally, banks do not provide loans for trading, but there are things like bank guarantees and all that used to be there, still are there. But in India, that is being last month, the regulation RBI has released circular, which makes it stringent for trading firms or brokerage firms to get loan for the purpose of trading, the bank guarantees for the purpose of trading, but for the operations and all that is still okay. So, yeah, so generally default answer is no. Banks generally do not provide loan for even trading, not just HFT. Yeah, any other questions? Perfect. So, so next is on the regulatory and compliance aspect, right? So we have set up the desk, but now you have started trading. What now next happens is that you need to have quite a few regulatory aspects, especially if you are a member yourself, right? So if you are trading through a broker, most of it does not get applied to you. Broker is responsible generally for managing it on your behalf, right? So that's there. So this is when you, but so there are a lot of regulations which are specific to trading, right. Then there are regulations which are further, more specific to algo trading, right? So, here we are talking about the algo trading aspect. So, first of all, when you are taking your system live, right, so for the first time, especially your trading system live in the exchange, so most of the exchanges demand that you do a conformance test. Right, so confluence test is that your algo trading system does some testing exchange with the exchange in their exchanges test environment, like for example, in case of CME, it would be cert environment, CRT environment, in case of other exchanges it can be something else.

Speaker 1  2:00:16  
Right, so so conformance is the I the process in which you are participating in that test, and then sharing your logs, and if everything fits fine, then you get the approval for doing that, and then you can run whatever strategy you're running. So that's one way of doing it. Another way is how you see it happening in India, or in Thailand, a few other countries in which the concept of strategy impediment is there, so it's not that you need to just have your algo trading system approved, but you need to get approval for each and every strategy that you're automating, right? So that's where the strategy empowerment concept comes in. In India, this has been further broken down into two pieces. One is for the DMA, direct market access, so what was already happening, the algo, which was already happening, which, where you connect directly with the exchange and with the API, and you are sending orders direct through the direct market access route, so in that they were the guidelines are already there, and you go and you get your strategy, you participate in the mock trading, you get the your auditor to sign off, and then you submit it through the exchanges portal and get the approval done, and what has recently happened, and from first of April, that has been made more applicable. Is where you are required if you are a retail algo trader, and if you're going through the broker, so there was some confusion earlier that if you are going through broker a page, then does these rules apply or not. So now they have given clarification, and now that system is in place, in which you, if you're sending 10 less than 10 orders per second, then you don't need to get the approval, but you still need to ensure that you are using a static IP, right? So that they know that where this order is coming from, and then there are list of rules and guidelines, which are there, that okay, this static IP cannot be changed more than once, and in a week, unless there is explicit approval, and many other things, which are there. If you're going through the third-party platform, then this and that. So, so, lot of which, which is there, but this is all available on the circulars, but, but the, but the rules on the API trading, so the approval is not needed unless till the time it is less than 10 orders per second, so that's been there on the empanelment side for the geographies where impairment is there for the conformance like CME and other places, DGCI, CME, and a few other places which are there, it's more of a conformance. The next step is on the audit logs, so if you are trading through your membership, then you are also required to maintain trade logs, transaction logs for typically four to eight years, depending on which geography you are in, and the exchanges or in the jurisdiction where empirement process is there, in which, in terms of strategy embedment process, you generally also need to have the control parameter saved, so which means that what are the strategy parameters which are there, so they, when you send out that order, or then when the trade was done, so that that mapping with the strategy can also be done right, so that control parameters, that's the additional requirement, generally, but otherwise it's largely the transaction logs. Apart from that, then you also have all the other regular audits and system audit, password policy, all those things which are there, which remain true for the algo trading as well, so yeah, so that's pretty much what's there on the regulatory and compliance aspect. Would the firm lose alpha under strategy impairment? So depends, so generally, what we have seen is that exchanges are not asking you for, you know, okay, give us exact logic, and the intent is more of understanding where the risk is, and if there can be any runaway situations, right? So that's generally there, you do not need to, you give the detail, but it's not something which, where you share your alpha, per se, right? So, so, yeah, so I generally know, so I have not seen firms losing alpha from by going through that process, okay.

Speaker 1  2:04:59  
Okay, all right, so now all these things are done, but how much money do we, you know, really need for when you go about this? So this is a very, very, very, very, very crude. I highlight it, but people do forget, so I will highlight it and make it bold. Yeah, so these are very crude intended numbers in USD, right? And this is broken down in terms of setting up an entity to it, also includes the running cost for the first year and the office rent market access. I've also added tags like membership and HFT or MFT, right? So, if you're member, if you're taking membership, then market access as a cost; otherwise, there is, of course, no cost, right? Similarly, co-location - it's only for if you're taking HFT, right? Otherwise, that's not needed. Market data if you're moving for HFT, otherwise, you don't need to pay for market data, right? So, otherwise, you can get directly for free from the broker, so all those things which I have added, so all in all it comes out in people we have assumed to be zero that you are partnering to get people right, so in that case the approximate cost HFT with membership, and obviously we have segregated for developed markets and developed markets, so that comes out to be about this. Is not for trading, but more for the infrastructure, and basically this is not a UN, so there's not asset in the management or trading capital, but it is more of the capital that is expected to be needed to set up the business right. So HFT, when membership in a developed market would be about a quarter million dollar and MFT without membership in WMA market would be around 25 $30,000 so that's approximate cost of how much money you're likely to need when you are setting up this business, I'll go trading business, okay, so so, yeah, so that's that's pretty much how much you are seeing here is good enough for for MFT, but for HFT you would probably need a few more bundles, so that's it. Okay, so if any questions here with respect to whatever we have covered today? If not, then we can also move towards the questions that were shared, so Okay, sure. The win, I think you have that, man. Okay, let me do Okay, so these are the.. can you see my screen? Of I'm not sure if I I able to see the screen with the questions on it. Yes, okay, good, perfect, great, thanks. So, so, yeah, so let me, I see some questions in the chat. Let me know first, take them up. My questions about the pre calls, is it pre qualifications? Is it Sudan? So the pre qualifications, as such, primarily you need statistics understanding, you need market microstructure understanding in very good understanding of technology and infra. Right, so these are the combinations which you need a lot, and a higher level understanding is also good enough, right? So that can help you, especially in the AI age of AI. If you have that, that works. So whatever we are trying to cover, we try to cover all these sessions, so a lot of it builds a very strong base of what we are trying to, what you can build further on. Obviously, the every path is different, so how you are, where you are, and how you'll go about it, that will, that will be its own unique journey, but, but otherwise, what you covered here, I think a lot of it gets, gets addressed, so yeah, so that's that's there. And okay, alright, so the what are the pre-qualification requirements for being a prop trading firm, like capital, menu work experience, track. God, infra, if for a prop trading firm, all these requirements don't exist generally in most of the geographies, including in India. Yeah, so what generally can be there is that maybe you might need to clear some exams for dealer or if you're in US, then NASD, and those series different series exams, which you need to pass for dealing and for direct market access, and all those things, which might be there, but otherwise from the algo specific point of view, or prop trading, so apart from that, there is no such requirements per se. Okay. All right. Okay. Can a retail trader have an edge in algo trading? Yes.

Speaker 1  2:10:53  
So, do retail traders make money by default? No. But do retail traders make money? Yes. So, so those who make money, they found an edge, right? So, so that's that's definitely there. I had this webinar, I think, few years back. It's there on the YouTube channel as well, I think, on Quantity's YouTube channel. If you see, so, so, where we try to put down different edges, which, which exist, right, which you, which can help you in becoming, which can help you in creating a venture or creating a setup, which can be meaningful in terms of market performance, right. So we try to build that in that scenario. There are some which are more institutional, right, but there are some which can be done from the retail perspective as well, but it is pure retail. Then generally you are taking some kind of risk in your strategy and managing that risk well. So I think that is what comes through best, best. Okay, all right. Do banks provide loans for our firm? If so, any conditions that are unique to our industry? Banks provide loans. Has said that generally, most of the banks do not provide loans for trading, so that's part one. There are banks in a way they can provide through bank guarantees, so yes, that is there. So you can consider that as a loan in a way, right? But for operations, for for your odds, for your cash flow, and all of that, that yes, that banks, some banks to offer that, so that can be there. Yeah, Arvind, okay? Are there many career jobs out there for CTAs, so depends with geography and when at what time. Right now, yes, it's it's definitely a time where you are seeing more opportunities, because there's more money, which is being made, because there's more volatility, and all those things, which are there, but there is also more uncertainty, which is why there is more volatility, so that becomes a bit of a drag, but otherwise, in terms of the hiring capabilities, that is going up for the firms now. Another thing, which is coming in, is the regulatory aspect, which is a lot of regulations are getting changed globally, so that's again is something which is generally linked with volatility, so in the regulatory uncertainty when that comes in, so that can actually make the revenue streams a bit questionable for some time, so that's the negative part of it, so you need to see that wherever you are, so how these things are, so companies are making more money because of more volatility, is there right? Then companies are also becoming apprehensive of hiring because of the uncertainties, which are there, right, and whether the regulatory uncertainties, which are, which are making a which is making them jittery, or is it making taking away their revenue streams? Okay,

Speaker 2  2:14:31  
right.

Speaker 1  2:14:35  
Okay, AI and brokers are providing algo trading on their platforms. How to find edge in current computer market. I think someone has asked a few AI questions, which will be a subset of this. I think what you're saying, this will be a subset of that. Those questions, but what I see is that AI in itself is not the edge. AI helps you build edge, right? So. But are you there in the hypothesis formation, and those understanding, do you have that? So, if yes, then AI is your friend, which can help you reach their reach with the edge faster. But AI is not there, so AI or brokers providing a good reading on their platform. If something, which is provided openly, how can that be an edge, right? So, that was never an edge in the first place. There's just execution abilities, and if someone is saying that, okay, here is a strategy, and you'll make a lot of money, and they're offering it for free, or for a small fee, or any fee, you know that it's not something which is likely to make much of a difference, right? I hope that does not - I do not need to delve much deeper on that, but if it was making money, then that would not be shared in the first place, right? So, so, yeah, so that's there. Is he paid sufficient to crank quant-related jobs and well-known companies from the quant trading perspective? Yes, but of course it's a function of whenever someone is hiring, it's a function of many things, what you know, what's there on your CV, what's your background, what's your professional background, what's the role that they are looking for, what is the level at which they are looking to hire, entry level, senior level, where you are, so all those things are also there, but yes, as I think someone suggested that it would be a good idea to have for, because we do do that in addition to the one on one career support, which is there, but there are some sessions also, which are done, so yes, I think we'll have that. Okay, so yeah, I think we are on time. So, we have marked some of these questions, which I had assumed that we will be, will get covered in the session itself, so in green background. But those who are, but if you think any of those questions are not getting, did not get answered in the session. Let me know. Yeah, so this also, I think we already discussed NISM satiration mandated to start hedge fund or test for hedge fund NISM, since it's written NSM, so that's India specific. So hedge fund is AIF. You may need to pass certain exams, but and some background which needs to be there for AIF, if you're actually referring to the hedge fund. If you're talking about Prop Des, then I think we discussed a few minutes back that no, that's not needed, unless for dealing, that is the different thing. How to approach investors, and I think this also just got discussed about what you are bringing to the table and what they have, but if your question is specifically about about AUM, then it's more of how you are creating your pitch, your strategy performance, I think PRM 01 has some details on it, and also that session that I was referring to about the fund. How to create your fund. How to set up your own fund. So that's that also has this part where how to create different term, you know, the the sheets for performance sheets. So that's that's also something which you can check out. Can we invest clients' money in FN two and commodity sector? How visible do MFT and FT in ETS segment? Yes, you can invest clients' money in FN and commodities, but depends what kind of setup you have. So, assuming if it's a fund, then FNO you can do in AIF, right? How feasible is to do MFT and left in ETF segment in India. ETF, the liquidity is low, but it has been increasing. So, yeah, so MFT and NFT strategies can be run, but depends on the size. If you are big size, then it might be tricky. Please do check for the liquidity, how much volume is happening, and how many outstanding units are there, and all of that.

Speaker 1  2:19:01  
How many strategies should be kept in the basket when you're starting with your first business? How do risk management as business? So, if you are looking at trading, it is your business, right? So, yeah, so that you're absolutely right on that. How many strategies depend, so what type of, what type of trading paradigms, paradigm you are in? Right, so that's first. And what type of trading eras is our strategies covering right? So, are your strategies relevant in the trending markets? Are they relevant in the, in the main rewarding markets, right? Or in the web flashing markets, right? So, so that is something which needs to be, needs to be looked. At right, so what kind of strategies? How many strategies that would be needed, or is it just one strategy? Also, because there is no set rule, you can one strategy can also be like make your billion, right, or it can be 100 strategies, but still not good enough. So, there is no set rule around that, per se. It's basically you knowing that why your strategy is making money, right? So, that's what that's what is important here. So, if you know why your strategy is making money, and you can identify that edge, I think that's that's what helps in actually making money, I am trying to understand the best way to structure an algo trading business in India, whether to start at the prop desk or combine it with client offerings like research or execution, so, so this for this part, so it's basically your RA versus RIA, that part that we covered during the setting up a fund slide at what stage does regulation become unavoidable in practice? And how do firms typically separate prop trading from client-related activities to stay compliant with SAEB guidelines, while still being flexible early on? So different firms have managed it differently. There are firms who do both the client and the prop in the same broking, but obviously that makes things more complicated, but it's allowed. It's not something which is not allowed to the best of my understanding. In fact, it would be fair to add a disclaimer here that all of this, what we are discussing, and added through the session, including right now, what we are discussing, that's all based on my understanding, which can be wrong, and a lot of things, and purely from the education point of view, no licenses being mentioned that I have to share this right, taxation, lot of things that we are discussing, so please, or law, or taxation, or regulations, so please do take and do your own research, and you know, get people, qualified people, to give you inputs, so that's there, just purely from some of my experience and learnings, which I'm here to share. Okay, so with that point added, at what stage, so yeah, so, so that's that's there, so you can have client and prop business in the same same membership, of course, you have to maintain it segregated, and you cannot use profits or client, all those things are there, so in India those things are pretty well defined, so the regulations and everything is pretty much sorted on that part, that's why you don't see much, too many scams around it, right? So that's good. Okay, I would like to get a realistic sense of the cost structure. I think this we have covered what typical part to break even. How do early stage firms usually fund themselves? Typically, you partner if you don't have money yourself, then you partner with some broker or some sub broker, and you go take it from there. What monetization model, what monetization models - profit share, fixed fee, signal selling tend to work best initially without creating a misaligned expectation with clients, so if it is, if you're talking about clients, if it is retail clients, then I don't think this, all these things would be relevant, because the structures are very different, so you need to go for our idea and other things, if it is more of partnering with the brokers and monetizing with them, so that's a profit share model, and it can become professional services and other things that can be there with them, so that's that can be done. Yes. Okay.

Speaker 1  2:23:50  
So, so, yeah, so there it, the misalignment will not be much, because they wouldn't understand what they are getting into, but if it is retail bands, and obviously it's you need a very different structure than what is mentioned here. Okay, what funding routes are available early with this? I think we discussed what are the non-negotiable skills I need to run this independently, and where do most sell-directed traders fail? I think the biggest failure generally happens on two aspects, one is by assuming that you have planned for everything, and this is where most of your time will be going, which is so not true, right? So, your most of your time will be going into things which you have not imagined, or were not able to imagine, or it's not feasible to imagine, also, right? So, the ad hoc and some random stuff, which will come in, that's first part, and second part is that if you really love trading, then if you are creating a business around it, a scalable business, and please know that you will get, will be easy to get people who can do trading, but it will be difficult to get people to do the rest of the stuff right, so. So, if you really love trading and you want to do trading only, then better to keep it as an employment, as a job, right? If you are running it as going to run it as a business, and which is the best way of making money, of course, but what can be the best way of making money, but in that case, you please know that you will be involved in a lot more stuff other than trading, so that's there. Okay, how does one decide on a framework from for drawdown control when I stop trading? How can does one decide on a framework for drawdown control, and when I stop trading, so I think it's a matter of your own risk appetite here, right? So, how you manage your risk, and your what? What is your risk appetite, and what kind of risk you're okay with, right? So, for someone, it can be that okay, I look at the overall number, and that's what matters to me, right? So, if this much drawdown is happening at the portfolio level, at the portfolio strategies level, then I, then I stop trading. For someone, it can be no, I would like to look at each of the strategies individually as well as overall, right? So, it depends on how you look at risk, and that can be your alpha. In fact, what is an ideal timeline for growth on this sort of ventures? First one to two years, developing, followed by growth. How does one think through planning this timeline? I think one to two years you need to give for without expecting much, but if it is something interesting by the before the end of second year, you should be getting something, so you should be getting some alpha. If you're not, then probably it's a good time to revisit that, whether things are going okay or not for you. Obviously, I'm assuming this is full-time venture that you're doing this, I think this is what we discussed here. Professionally managed funds appear to have bigger moat, of course. Yes, agent lining up the right resource and sustained primary wall. How does one approach this conceptually? Specifically, developing confidence to doing this well operationally by knowing why you are making money, why you are expecting yourself to make money, and knowing that what do you need to make more returns or improve your returns and improve your performance, and by getting the resources lined up to get those bigger modes and bigger edges, right. So these are the three things that I would say. How does venue cost management actually works at scale, what a system does one implement to consistently measure and stay updated in terms of any cost? I think it's a function of your what kind of strategies you are going to do, so if it is from the high frequency point of view, then the slippage in terms of the immediate slippage, which comes through, but if it is from the low frequency big ticket size, then the impact cost is what matters more. So it really depends on that part.

Speaker 1  2:28:12  
How does one think of inducing critic risk on a day to day basis from a systematic point of view? Day to day risk management can be daunting, especially when managing shots. How does someone approach this in a more organized manner than it comes to portfolio management? I think you need to have a very strong comprehensive understanding of the risk aspect. If it is going at a scale like you mentioned, here you are into multi asset, long shot, all of those things. Then you need to understand that risk is not just what is a P and L, right? What is the loss, but also the quality of loss, the volatility, the Greeks, which you need to look at at the portfolio level, at the individual Greek level, second order, third order. So all of those things becomes very important. So, generally, it's a good idea if the person who is in the, especially in the starting phase, person who is creating strategies or managing the positions, has an extremely good understanding of what are the risks that his or her strategies are having, so, so, yeah, so that's generally a miss, which happens, and also one of the reasons where, for which you know, the many initial ventures can very easily fail, right, especially when scaling up. How do professional trend following CTA structurally designed their systems to achieve a convex return distribution, where a small percentage of trades generate the majority of the of profits, so, so it's not, does not necessarily have to be that right, so, so it's say in certain strategies or certain setups, collecting pennies can be the business where you are. Are earning very, very small amount, but from more huge number of trades, right? Or you are having combination risk-reward combination, in which you are taking bigger risk but smaller rewards, but your probability of you getting rewarded is way higher than what you're going to get at a loss, right? So, depends on what kind of strategy it is. So, of course, this is more popular, that okay, low risk, high reward, and you know, small spot stop loss, bigger take profit, for especially for trend following strategies, and also it's popular. Yes, but is that something that I would say that this is what I really want or need, or this is what success is? No, that's not necessarily true. For some cases, it can be true. For many cases, it might not be true. How do top CTS construct and rebalance multi-asset trend following portfolios to maximize diversification, while still concentrating risk in the strongest trends? I don't know, so this is because they would not share, I guess, is very specific aspect of CTS constructing and rebalancing multi asset trend following portfolios to maximize diversification. So you want to maximize diversification, and you have multi asset portfolio, and you want to figure out, and you want to concentrate risk in the strongest trends. I don't really fully understand that our while still concentrating risk in the strongest trend. What does that exactly mean? But I'm assuming that you are wanting to eliminate or subsidize risk, even when the trends are trends are extremely strong. So, how do you, how do CTAs construct and rebalance these portfolios? I think this will be case to case, it will vary a lot, I guess. I doubt that there can be a single way of doing it here. So that's your strategy, basically, right? So, how you're going about it, since trend following strategies often experience long drawdown periods before capturing last trends, how do professional traders maintain discipline and avoid system override during extended under performance? I think it's more a function of how you have tested it, right? So, how well you have tested it. So, if the back testing has been without, without biases, free of biases and has been comprehensive, then I think the confidence and discipline is likely to come naturally, so it only that fear factor generally comes primarily because you're not confident of what you are running right, so that generally comes from not testing it enough or being very new, right? So you have tested, but you always have this thing on your mind that, okay, no, real market is different, real market is different, or as Daniel Kahneman shares, the there is a very big loss aversion psychology which comes in from the system, one specially, right?

Speaker 1  2:33:23  
So, which is that? Okay, we don't want to. So, is the same reason why you see people have taken a position. It goes into a loss the moment it comes at cost again. Then you are willing to, you know, exit on it, as compared to not knowing that one person below or 1% above is also the same thing, technically, but still you go for loss aversion, and you are going to take decisions to avoid losses, so your mindset becomes different, so that psychological aspect is there. Yes, but, but largely in my understanding, for systematic traders, or especially for quarrels like you, what really matters is that your confidence is likely to be a function of how well, how confident you are of the back testing process, right? So, say, yeah, so, so, if it is there, then I think that should help resolve that. How is AI fundamental changing the source of trading edge? Trading edges like momentum, mean reversion, trend following being enhanced or arbitrary? I think it keeps on getting shifted with the AI. Right, so AI, right now, where we are, it's AI in itself is not the alpha, but AI is something which can help you reach an alpha faster and with more ease. So, the platform, so where there was a time when you just knowing this, some bit of basics was good enough to make money, right? So. Just having the market access, like we're discussing the trading pits during the times of trading pits, so just having that access was a good alpha, right? Then things change, then things change, then things change. Now with AI, if your edge was that okay, I can back test and I can remove biases and all those things have just that much, then any LLM can also do that with a few prompts, right? But it's more of that discovery of an edge that how you're going to get that edge and how you can deploy Agent DKI, especially is how it may is going to make a difference for you, so, so, yeah, so that's there. So, I doubt that. I doubt that it is fundamentally changing the source of trading edge at this point of time, but it is definitely changing the how of arriving at a trading edge. How you're arriving at a trading edge, as AI improves market efficiency by processing information faster. Do you expect trading edges to structure and decay over time, or simply volunteer more complex form? I don't think that AI is likely to process information faster, because that's not what is happening here. That role was, and is currently also still today, is being done by HFTs. Right, so AI, the LLMs, they do not speed, is not in terms of when we are talking about high frequency load latency trading, right? So speed is not their friend for LLM, right? So you are doing a lot of processing and lot of info that you are processing, it's not the speed, is not the point here, but yes, it will make the information dissemination, you can say, or the process of testing, or coming up with different trading ideas, so all that will become easier. So, someone who had a very basic understanding of programming versus someone who have very, very good understanding of programming, so there was a gap between them. So, that gap has largely been bridged by likes of Claude Code and other, right? So, if you know, if you don't know at any program at all, then it can still be a challenge, but if you know a bit and you understand the concepts, then I think that edge between experienced programmer and new programmer is getting brushed down. Obviously, when it comes to software engineering, that still, that gap still remains more experience is actually a bigger moat now, so, so depends on on that aspect as AI adoption increase across institutions. What unique advantage can human traders still develop to maintain a match over the long term?

Speaker 1  2:37:51  
I think coming up with the more interesting, different hypothesis by leveraging AI, that's one another is the judgment or judgment aspect, so what we see and what we have, if you look at AI, it's more of I think there is this very interesting book by three Harvard profs prediction machines, so I would definitely recommend it to a lot of people who are trying to understand the AI basics, right? So, business basics, basically. So, AI is essentially making the predictions cheaper, right, and more accurate. So, cheaper and more accurate. So, that's there. So, predictions are there, but once you're predicted, now you need to make a judgment, right, on what to do next, what? How to go about it? How to employ that? How to deploy that. So, I think for the future belongs to the traders who are really good at that judgment, right? So, that comes through experience, that comes through having a more sound and deeper conceptual understanding. In my understanding, so that's there. What are the most effective ways for a self-directed retail trader to transition into a prop training firm? Are there proven pathways, combinations, verified track records, networking incubators that significantly improve success rates? I think if you're a self-directed retail trader who has been successful in terms of gaining certain edges, and you are now wanting to transition into prop trading firm, so the things which can improve success rate, I think we discussed this also a few minutes earlier, a few minutes ago, is knowing what you, what is making money for you, knowing what can make more money for you, and knowing the way how you can get the resources to get the second part, things that can help you get those resources, or the resources can help you get. Are more edges that you, that you know, can enhance your strategy. So, for that, it can be through networking, or it can be through investors, it can be through partners, it can be through professional partners, or it can be through institutional partners. So, it depends on that. Okay. so yeah, so that's a, that's pretty much it. Let me see, I think there may be a couple of questions, but I see on the screen here, yeah. Okay, I'm a profitable trader, option trading options, but not enough to make an income. How can I scale? First thing is knowing why you're making money, why your system, why your options trading is making money. If you know that, then it is likely, and options generally are scalable in most of the geographies, Jesse. So, so, if you're, if you know the reason, then you can definitely increase the bet size, or enhance the strategy, or multiply it with multiple different strategies, which can play on the similar edge, so, so that's that's that's what I would say. What are the software systems required in a prop trading system, OMS portfolio risk management systems, which vendors are available industry standards suitable to start a business in India? They're defined for each of these things. There are few vendors, so MS, you have nurses and there are there a list of if you check that would be there risk also there is a select list within back office cops often few others which are there so zoom you can actually just check for each of these you have segregated it well so you can check online if you have any doubts, please reach out to us. I will definitely be happy. Suggest here, and please recommend your top five trading finance rate books. Okay, so first is definitely always trading in exchanges by Larry Harris. Another is by Nathan Berg on the options trading workbook, Sheldon Network, the book by Of Your On Options Trading. Again, I think by Johan Sinclair. His books have been also quite, quite good. Ernie's book on both the new one that has come up, as well as the previous ones on algo trading, that's been pretty interesting. I also like our own books, Algo Quantity Publications, the ones that you have received. Right, so, so, yeah, so I think these are some of them. You can also try to check out some of the well-known papers and yeah, the Prado, Prado's book, that's also pretty interesting.

Speaker 1  2:43:08  
And then you can also dig deeper on specific topics, so for time series, and for, you know, there are specific books which are more textbook side, so that can also be quite meaningful, like trading. Can we use ML investing? Of course, there are a lot of ML. ML is being used in investing a lot more, I think, for a considerable period of time now, and especially portfolio management, risk management. The applications are even more, I think. So, yes, you can.

Speaker 2  2:43:49  
Okay?

Speaker 1  2:43:52  
Any other questions? Cool. so if there are any other questions, also that comes to you later on, if not now, so please feel free to reach out, and I'd be glad to connect and share my inputs on that, and yeah, this is this something which may be relevant today for some of you while you're who are already in the process of setting up something or planning to set up something or those of you who are planning to do it maybe three years, five years later. Regardless, please do connect and let us know if we can help in any way, especially in terms of guidance, or if you need a sounding board. Please do let us know, because nothing pleases us faster. More pleases us more than seeing that our participants and alumni, when they set up their ventures and they expand. I think that's a very, very fulfilling feeling. So, yeah, so please do let us know. Would be glad to, glad to be of any assistance out there, and glad to play a role. So, asking, is LLM really useful for HFTs? Yeah, LLM, there are many, many different ways in which LLMs are being used, right? So, first is just generating more code or digging data, so there's so much vast amount of data, which is there, transaction as well as otherwise, the various types of not just market data but various types of data which is there, so that, and plus the processing, so not in, but not in terms of executing in life, that's not where LLMs are really useful for, for that, but for, for that usage, but otherwise for the research, for code development, for data answers, all that massively. Yes. Okay. Sure. Monica, then I hope Neeraj or Rohit, have you taken this no request? I had requested. I have not got a confirmation, so I'm not sure that career guidance session. Rohit, yeah, you have taken a note. Yeah, okay, cool. Thank you so much. Thanks, Monica. Then we have taken the taken that note. Great. All right, so thanks. Thanks, even. Yeah, thanks for the kind words. And yeah, thank you all. And thanks for your time, and for all the questions. I really enjoyed discussing and sharing my inputs on this, I hope it helped you with some of the queries and got some help, you have some insights, and that I said, if there's anything that comes to you later on, please do let us know. We would be glad to be connected and help in whichever way we can in your venture building, in your existing firm, or a new firm, or your own venture, whichever it is. Yeah, all right. So, thank you, and all the best. Thanks a lot. Bye.

Speaker 4  2:47:13  
Thank you, Nitesh.

Speaker 1  2:47:16  
Thank you.

Unknown Speaker  2:47:16  
Bye.

