Speaker 1  0:03  
Hello, everyone. Welcome to this session on actual language processing and sentiment analysis in trading. My name is Radha Krishna, and today we will be discussing many aspects of NLP and sentiment analysis. Before we begin the session, a couple of things about the way we are going to do this session. I'm assuming that you would have got the slides, and also I'm assuming that you have downloaded the sample data. If you haven't, that's fine. I'll walk you through the sample data, and I'll walk you through various aspects of this session, even though we have sent across a set of Python notebooks, we don't expect you to run all of them beforehand, because the idea is some of them will be useful once you are done with the session. Once, once we go through many aspects of the session, you can probably work through them. That's that's about the material that we have sent, and the way we are going to structure this session, just for the benefit of, to get a sense of the time. So, this session is going to be in two parts. The first session will be a 90 minute session. We'll stick to an ISD, because I guess there are many participants across time zones, but we'll stick to one time zone, which, which makes it easier to communicate. So, the first session will be from 230 to four, will be a 90 minute session. Then we'll take a 15 minute break, and then we'll come back, and we will have the next session from 415 to 530 So that's how we're going to engage for the next three hours. Having said that, in terms of in terms of the overall structure of this presentation for the next three hours, think of this session as bite-sized explorations into various topics, because NLP, sentiment analysis, NLP, Gen AI, these are these are changing so rapidly, especially in the last couple of years, that these topics, there is no point in actually spending all the time in just one topic. There are several topics that are associated with NLP and sentiment analysis. So think of these sessions, even though broadly there are about five five things that I've mentioned. Here we are not going to stick to this completely. We are, it will be a combination of discussion, combination of tools, combination of data, combination of demos, and the reason why I like the demo approach, especially when it comes to communicating messages, is that demo sticks, so some of these demos are internal to LSAC. Again, just as, again, I forgot to give me interruption. I, my name is Radha Krishna, and I work at London Stock Exchange. I have been in the financial service industry for close to 25 years, and I've spent about a decade in Goldman Sachs and in asset management roles, and in the last 10 years or so I've been with LSEC, so the structure of the presentation would would be utilizing a part of LSEC data again to illustrate the idea is we will look at these data sets to illustrate various points of how hedge funds, how buy sides, how pension funds are using alternative data sets, and how they're constructing various trading signals. So, the idea is to use the data, showcase the data, because without data it's very difficult to even talk about any extracting signals or talking about how people are using. So, we will take LSAC data as an anchor to the discussion, so again, as I said, the way we are going to structure is we are going to look at bite-sized topics, and these bite-sized topics will have several demos, and some of these demos are internal to l6 so I won't be able to share those demos, but the point is I'm going to showcase those demos to figure to get a sense of how these data sets can be used. That's the one, of course, the Python notebooks and sample data that you can, of course, play with them. So we'll start off with the basic first section. Again, as I said, these are the these are sections. Think of these as bite-sized sessions sections. The first thing we'll talk about, and this is probably the most important foundation to understanding this entire field.

Speaker 1  4:29  
If you, if you call it as a massive field, even though it's a loosely coupled topics in this whole space, the first thing that we all should understand is what are the types of data sets that are used in this, in this space, because these are not traditional data sources. The very name given to these kind of data sources are called alternative data. Now, the word alternative data that you're seeing on my screen, some of you might, might have. Come across this term, but these are typically terms that these are typically data sources, which are not market discovered. Now, what are market discovered data sources? You look at trades data, codes data, implied wall data. These are all data set, these are all data points that are being created when let's say there is a buyer, there's a seller in the market, and market is discovering these data points as we speak. So, there is no ambiguity, so to speak. If a trade happens, it happens in the sense that there is a timestamp, there is a buy, there's a buyer, there's a seller, there's a specific rate price. So, there's no ambiguity, of course, there is a lot of ambiguity in terms of, in terms of, let's say, data is not clean, you need to clean the data, but beyond that, the data set itself, or the data points that you use in your trading strategies, like price, volume, order book, these are all discovered data, market discovery, when it comes to alternative data, you will see that these are not in that sense something which has a ground truth. There is a lot of ambiguity, fuzziness in how you interpret this data for your training strategy. We'll see what that means. Is what do I mean by fuzziness? What do I mean by subjectivity? We'll get to all of that, but at a high level, that is the distinguishing factor between an alternative data and let's say a normal structured data, that that you, that you probably have seen. When I say structured data, you know the schema, you know pretty much that there's a, there's a ground truth to it. There's market discovered, so those are the characteristics of market discovered data now? Why do you think I mean one of the reasons why this all data has shot into prominence is, of course, you know that the alpha that one can derive from the usual data sets like trade stock, I mean stock, I mean the order book data, trading data, everybody has exposed exposure to the same set of data, which means there is every, every, every hedge fund, every HFT firm, every pension fund, every fund manager is looking at the same data set, sort of, and they're trying to get out signals, and it's a very competitive space, as you all know. So alpha itself from this traditional sources is decreasing, so of hedge funds, bond funds, algo trading houses, they are are are now looking at all data. It could be again, what is all data? We'll get into what are the kinds of all data, but think of these as data sets which, which, which will help supplement the trading strategies. Now, supplement is a, is a, is a word that probably I would have used five or six years ago, but now I would use the word complement, because sometimes there are certain types of trading strategies that are predominantly based on alternative data, and then you use structural data tools to supplement it. We'll see some examples as we go along, so that those are the demand, demand drives on the supplies, there itself. If you look at how many vendors, there's tons of vendors who are supplying this data set, these kinds of data sets. Now, before I get into what these data sets are, Who are the suppliers? Maybe the best way to introduce this, get a high level idea of what these data sets are. When I say alternative data, what are these data sets? So one of the things that you probably will be very familiar with, at least I'm assuming that is news. A lot of people say, okay, news is a sort of unstructured, semi-structured data, and news item does not carry any specific signal, so to speak. You have to call out the signal based on, of course, various based on various things.

Speaker 1  8:48  
You will probably look out, you look at sentiment from the news item, and you will interpret the sentiment, and then probably use that as a signal into your trading strategy. So, news sentiment, these are something this which you probably know already, but there are several kinds of alternative data sets we look at them, which are increasingly being used in traditional long only kind of trading strategies, in long short strategies, even at a even mid frequency strategies and high frequency strategies, so at a high level one needs to have an idea that these are not something which come with the ground truth. When I say ground truth, they do not have a specific objective nature to the to the data points. Now we will look at these examples. The way to look at these examples, is actually go through each of these data sets at a very high level, and that's what we're going to do in the next few minutes, so that we have the good foundation as to what are these data sets. Number one, why are they categorized separately, and why do, why are, why do we call them alternative data in the first place? What is so. Fuzzy about it. What is so subjective about it, and how it makes it? What is the nature of these data sets that makes it difficult to straight away extract alpha? Okay, we'll get into that, but at high level, these are the kinds of all data, but not all of this is used in financial data services, and as a financial services, it could be it could be funds, hedge funds, quant funds, buy side, and you name any player in the financial markets, not every player is going to use every kind of all data in the same way. If you, if you ask me, from from from what we have seen in this region and across the world, we see that clients, when I say clients, are our clients are hedge funds, HFT firms all over the world, buy-side funds and fund managers, typically the all data sets that are really, really being used in terms of volume, in terms of daily subscriptions. We have a, since NSIX provides this data, we have an, we have a overview of what kind of data sets are being subscribed by various companies and various funds. So, news, of course, is something which is which everybody latches on to. Then we also have, you know, we have sentiment data, which, which a lot of people, lot of clients take it as is, because they don't want to plug it into the trading models. Few years again, this is before Trump. Trump, after Trump, actually ESG people subscribing to ESG or ESG prominence has gone down a bit, but before Trump, actually, a lot of lot of funds, and there were a lot of activity on getting ESG data. What is ESG data? Environmental social government governance data points. So, I'll, again, we'll see a few examples of what this is. Beyond this, there are other data sets, which, which increasingly we are seeing that out of clients consume. So, let's start with the first example. It's very important that we at least have a bird's overview of what these data sets are, because ultimately, if you, if you walk into any HFT firm, any trading firm, and you look at, you want to leverage this, let's say NLP technology, or Gen AI, or LLM, or any of these technologies in financial trading, the usually the source is primarily unstructured data, because that's where traditionally, you know, before LM came in, before NLP techniques were introduced, it was very difficult to actually get alpha understand what signals are there. Okay, let's start with the first one, which is machine readable news. Let me pull up, pull up the data. So, what you're seeing on my screen is, is, is a example of one specific news item, and the reason why I'm showing you in this format is this is the format, which one of the formats in that you know you will find increasingly the data sets, especially the news data sets, come in these formats. Now, what are these formats? These formats are they could be JSON, it could be XML, it could be anything, but these are typically manufactured so that a program can read this data.

Speaker 1  13:29  
So everybody has some mental model of news, maybe you have a mental model of news where you know that there is some headline, there's a body, there's a date, and so on and so forth, but when it comes to programmatic consumption of news, there are some things that some things which are very specific to programmatic consumption. What are those specific items? So, if you look at this, and where is NLP coming? So, the reason why I'm bringing this up is every data set that we speak here will have an NLP element, and it will also give you a sense of where NLP is being used and how these products are being created in the first place, and if you have to build these products by yourself, what does it entail? So we're going to, we're going to cover all of these, where you look at any product, I want you to look at this product thinking, okay, if I buy this product, what I'm going to get if I build by myself, what does what effort does it entail? Maybe if you're a retail trader, you want to build it by yourself. It's perfectly possible that you can entertain that thought, because today's, you know, today's technologies have evolved to such an extent that medium-sized feed probably can be spun off by yourself, so coming back to news. So, what you're seeing on my screen is a data structure where common elements of news are captured. So, for example, something which you'll, of course, recognize is when was it created, what language was, was this land, was this article written in? There is a headline, you. This headline growth in China's factory services slow in December. So that's the headline. You have a body for this that's captured. You, you also have a source, which, which is a source that is providing this news article, and you also have something very important, which is, which is this one. If you can see these are subject stack, now you might say, what is this now? What are these alphabets? I don't make.. I don't understand. Who is stamping this alphabet? There's these quotes, so the.. this is where the.. you will see the first aspect of NLP coming into picture. What vendors, what data vendors, and what everybody who's who supplies you news, they internally do is they take this news item, they take that body, they take the headline, and then they start stamping specific codes, which will help you identify whether the news is about a certain company, whether the news is about a certain geography, whether it's about a particular sector. So, think of these as codes. Now, the mapping to what these codes are is sometimes it's obvious. For example, if you say N to Asia, this means probably there's an Asian use item. Some of them are very obvious, but some of them are not. So, there are some, some, some symbols here, which, which you might say, okay. What is this symbol? So all of this will cover, but at the same time, what I want to at this point in time, what I want you, what I want you to understand is that any news item, they will be a certain element of NLP that is attaching metadata. So, if what is metadata, data about data? So, for example, what is it? What is the data for a news item? If you have a headline, everybody probably you have a date that's an odd and probably who has written it. Those are the usual things that you see in any new site, but when you programmatically convert into a news item, that when you convert into an item that has to be ingested by program, algo, or terminally, then you'll have to think about what are the metadata available. So, first thing you have to think about, any all data comes with these features. Now, the what are these features? Most of these features are generated using algorithms. So, in this case, we are seeing subjects as one of the fields that is being generated algorithmically. When I say algorithmically using any algorithms, okay, that's one. So, coming back to the data sets, what we have seen so far is news, and news.

Speaker 1  17:33  
The reason why I spent a few minutes on this is this is probably one of the more widely used alternative data across all funds, across all hedge, all funds. When I say funds, all frequencies - high frequency, mid frequency, low frequency - every most funds in the in our space, at least that we have seen, they take news as one of the biggest components in their trading decisions. The next is I'll also talk about sentiment data now. Again, when I say sentiment data, you might have a mental model about what sentiment data is. Maybe you'll think about, okay, for a news item, there is some kind of a sentiment associated that could be a mental model. But I'll walk you through what sentiment data looks like. Give me a second, do So what you're seeing on my screen is, is an Excel worksheet. I've deliberately made it simple, so that we can understand. Typically, this is usually in JSON format or XML format, but what I want you to pay attention is that there are two tabs in this, one is a news file and one is a scores file. Now this is one way in which, if you were to ingest sentiment data into trading strategies, this is one way the data looks like, because it's very important to understand data, because without understanding data, it's very difficult to build any kind of trading strategy or any kind of feature if you want to talk in machine learning parlance, so what is what is this specific worksheet talking about? Each row in this is a news item, so the first row here is a news item, which is where it, where is the timestamp? There is a headline. What is the headline of the article? You also know what language is it written, and you also know, you know, some basic stuff, like what is a source, and what are the various subjects. So, these are these are the subjects which are programmatically stamped on the news item, why these are programmatically stamped, and what is the use of it? Because if you have to filter based on Asian use items, if you want to filter based on metals and mining news, if you want to filter based on FX news, cryptocurrency news, how will you filter? You can't filter just based on keyword search, so the fact that there is metadata. Associated with this is a very good indication that you can filter these news items, so this is this is the first file. The second file, second Excel sheet, is where for each of this news item, for example, in the first, remember, I showed you the news item, where each row is a new item, for each row a row in this specifies the company that has been mentioned. For example, here this is talking about a company called Innovent Biologics. For this Innovent Biologics, that specific article, what is the probability of negative sentiment? What is the probability of neutral sentiment and probability of positive sentiment for this company in that article. Okay, so essentially what we are looking at is a machine learning algorithm, which takes a new site, them which stamps three probabilities: probability of positive, probability of negative, and probability of neutral sentiment, and then it gives a as a class, okay, gives a specific class, if it is positive it will give one, if it's neutral, predominantly neutral, it will give zero, and if it's predominantly negative, it'll give minus one. Couple of questions, maybe I'll just answer here. What is the data vendor? So here, the data vendor that I spoke that I'm referring to here is LSEC, so most of these data sets that I'm going to show are from LSAC. Okay, because that's where that's where I have visibility on. I'll be able to connect to probably various concepts that you're all interested in. How to connect NP algorithm to a news feed? Yeah, we'll look at how we can, we can connect these algorithms, just maybe. As I said, there are various things that we will talk about, and I'm sure some of these questions will be answered as we go along. Is a tag is a tagging industry standard, or open standard, or vendor specific? So, this tag, that's a very important question.

Speaker 1  21:56  
So, this tagging, where we tag every news item with, with, with the topic codes, these are not these are not specific to let's say these are not industry wide standards, so nobody comes up with topic saying okay, let us all represent Asia as ASI, no, these are all vendor specific standards, and of course you will have a lookup table for each of them. So, to answer your question, is it something which is industry? Is there a tagging industry standard? No, but I will, I will, I will mention about a couple of things as we go along. There is a definitely a standard for taking a new set of and representing in a format that is machine readable, so maybe let me take this as a opportunity to specifically say what I'm saying, what what I mean. If there is a news item, there are industry standards, which, which tell, which, which specify how do I represent this news item, so that it is good enough for programmatic consumption, so there is there are industry standards that specify, so now whether a vendor follows this, a vendor to follow this is something which they have to decide, but increasingly, what we are seeing is most of the vendors are because it helps them to market, they start saying that, okay, we follow this standard, so in that sense there is some standard, but is there a top standard for topic codes? No, so that's how we, that's how we have to understand this. Yeah, so there is another question, very important question. Again, these are all wonderful questions. We'll, we'll talk about, which is, how is the name standardized? So, because the name in Innovate Biologics Biologics Inc might not appear like innovative biologics in the, in the company, in the news article, it might, it might have a short name, it have a trade name, it might have alias names. Very important question. And this is where you must remember that any of these metadata that we attach involves a ton and ton and tons of back and crossing, so even though you might say, okay, what is a big deal? I'm just trying to put an asset name, a name, company name for a news article. No, it's actually a very big deal, because you don't know how the company is represented. For example, you're talking about Boeing Company. Now, then the news could be about Boeing USA, it could be about Boeing Europe subsidiary, it could be about Boeing Asian unit, it could be about any of the subsidiaries. So, if you just say Boeing as a company, then it doesn't make sense at all. It could be about anything that the news item is talking about. So, that's where we'll get to it. Very important, where. Question asset name variations. These are this is like the million dollar question. How do you ascertain that a name in a news article is the specific company that you're interested in? That specific company could be parent company, could be a subsidiary company, could be, could be a partner company. How do you identify? So we will get to that, but very please hold on to the thoughts. Very important question to think about. So, what we have seen so far is sentiment data, where you can think of, I mean, if you, if you want to have a broad, you know, visual about how this works, is one news item can contain multiple company mentions, company one, company two, company three, and for each of these companies, you probably have, I mean, our data, the data sets that I've shown you will give you a probability of positive sentiment, probability of negative sentiment, and probability of neutral sentiment. So this is a three class probability, and based on whichever is high, either you get a minus one score or a zero score or a one score, so for so it's a one to many relationship, so now this is one way where you, there's an app, there's an engine which goes through this news item and it understands what companies are mentioned, and it stamps probabilities, and that's what I've shown you right now.

Speaker 1  26:24  
I'm also going to show you another kind of sentiment data set, and I'm focusing a bit on sentiment, because news and sentiment are probably the very name of a session is NLP sentiment analysis, but these are the data sets which are, which are used by a lot of hedge funds. The reason being, the signals are already baked. They don't have to, they don't have to actually crunch the data to get signals in terms of sentiment. Somebody else is crunching the data and is assigning the data entry assigning sentiment. They can use those signals directly into the trading strategy, so that's why these are very popular data sets that funds consume. Now this is another kind of sentiment. Again, this is another sentiment data set, but you can think of this sentiment data set as a multi-dimensional sentiment. What do I mean by multi-dimensional set? So here you have for a particular asset, for example, here I'm talking about aluminum, for a specific, for a specific, let's say, type of source, it could be a social media, it could be news, it could be news and social media, you have various dimensions of sentiment, you have optimism, fear, joy, violence, you know, time urgency, long shot. So, again, this is slightly more nuanced feed, where you not only get a broad sentiment signal, but you also get, let's say, you can think of these as micro sentiments. If you, if you use the word, essentially, what this is doing is instead of bucketing everything into sentiment, you are getting a very, very specific term-wise sentiment, volatility sentiment, production volume, especially for something like commodity production volume, consumption volume, sentiment. These are all very important. Now, if you think about this data set, it's perfect in terms of ingestion, ingesting into your trading model, because it's a flat file, row column, you can take this data as is, and start, you know, creating factors out of this, and putting it into your trading model, and so on, and so forth. So this is one of the data sets that a lot of HFT firms used across the world. So, where are we? I mean, I just want to spend some time on this, because this gives you the foundation of what data sets are actually flowing into when you say all data, when you say NLP analysis, what data sets are flowing into any of these trading strategies. So what have we done? What I've seen so far, we have seen news, we have seen sentiment data, there are other data sets, which in the recent years have become very, very, very prominent. When I say prominent, the reason why they have prominent is one, there are algos which are doing all of this works. Now, let me give you an example of what do I mean by transcripts, and what do I mean by briefs. Let me show you a quick example, so what you're seeing on my screen is a very, is a very standard way of transcribing an event. So, for example, if let's say here what we're saying is a Deutsche Bank, it has, it has given some, it's a financial conference, as you know, most of these companies, big companies, they have these conferences after once they announce earnings, they'll have an earnings conference, they will have conference to dish out various important aspects that are happening for the company. Now, when they are dishing out these news, typically in olden days. I say olden days, maybe a decade ago, equity research analysts and whoever traders, portfolio managers, they used to log into these calls and ask questions, saying, Okay, what do you think is happening to this company? In earnings call, people might ask, okay, why is this specific, you know, balance sheet item not up to the mark, and so on and so forth, and of course, see CEO, CFOS, and whoever are the stakeholders of the company, they answer, and of course, based on how they answer, what they answer, the equity trading analyst or a portfolio manager takes a call, but this has become completely automated.

Speaker 1  30:34  
When I say automated, the way in which this information is consumed today is automated, which means once it's an once there is an event that happens automatically, you see this, there's a some there's a software which transcribes what has happened, and this this is available in a programmatic manner, and you can, you can try, you can, you can invoke lot of NLP techniques on this specific text, so it, as you can start, you can start seeing that this is not of a data set or a form where you can actually import into some structured rotate row column format, and you immediately know what is this being, what is being talked about. So, for example, this is a massive.. I don't know, this is a massive transcript, unless you have tools, either you read it, that's one, which, of course, it doesn't scale, or you have some way in which you can ingest this data, write NLP techniques to understand what is it saying, what is the sentiment of this, who, who are the participants, what are they saying, so this is the raw material for NLP, and this has specifically gone up in the last five years, where if you look at most of the transcripts that are generated, they are increasingly being fed into algos, that's that, that look at these transcripts and churn out signals in terms of sentiment, in terms of what is it a buy, is it a sell, and so on and so forth. We will see, we'll see a lot of demos to showcase to see how actually people are using this, but at this point in time, I, the only thing that I want you to understand is these are the kind of data sets where extracting alpha is not straightforward, you don't see numbers here where you can just go and say, okay, this number has gone down, this number has gone up. No, it's not like that. It's a text. Similarly, you have something like you also have briefs. Briefs are nothing but, you know, mostly summarized form, as you can see, it's slightly more summarized. So, coming back to these data sets that I was talking about, transcripts, briefs, and these are again alternative data sets. Why alternative? Because these are not.. I mean, there's some algo, which is some transcript tool, which is trying to write, summarize this. Now, what is the ground truth? There is summarizing what people have spoken in that conference, but is it like.. can you make some sense out of it? Can you immediately figure out what should I, what should you do with this transcript. No, you will have to put into some NLP tool, understand what it's talking, and then make sense out of, so similar, so similarly. So, what we have seen so far, new sentiment transcripts, briefs, these are all relating to unstructured data. Everything there is, whatever I've spoken so far, there is a predominant element of unstructured data. It's a text, textual data. Now, there are other kinds of alternative data sets, like ESG. What would be an ESG? Maybe I'll quickly,

Speaker 2  33:37  
quickly show for, let's say, BP.

Speaker 1  33:41  
So, I'm talking about what is ESG data. How does it look like for, let's say, British Petroleum, and why is it called alternative data in the first place? Okay, so let's look at, let's look at some of these numbers, let's give me a second until it loads, so if you see that there is a score of, you know, 85 given given to BP, why? Because there is a environment, all the environment-related features they have LSAG has scored and has given 88 social pillar, there is an 82 score governance pillar. There is a, there is a 87 and if you think about it, How is it? How is it actually creating the score? There is no universal model for this. There is no universal model. It is a model that every vendor develops, every vendor who wants to give you ESG score develops. So this is what I meant when I say ground truth. If you ask British Petroleum, what is ESG score? If you ask five vendors, probably you will get five different scores. Why? Because everybody is using their own methodology to create ESG score. That doesn't mean it's, it's, it's in. Valuable, it's like so pointless. What do I do if there are 10 scores for a company, but that is not stopping from funds all over the world to consider ESG as one of the metrics for their investing philosophy. Now this is where slowly things start becoming different from what you've seen earlier in terms of structured data. In a structured data for BP. If you let's say look at times and time and sales data, there is no ambiguity in this time and sales data. What do I mean by okay? Let me take price history. So, on a specific date, what is the close? What is the open? What is a high, what is a low? There is no ambiguity. This is what it is. It is market discovered, but once you start getting to alternative data, like what I showed you just now, it becomes subjective. It, when I say subjective, it is a model that is driving, that is driving this specific score. Okay, so that's very important to understand why, why this data is different, even sentiment, for example, sentiment from, for a company, from a news article. If a sentiment is, let's say, positive, that's not the, that's not the universal answer truths, right? There could be many different news items. These news items could be talking good about the company, bad about the company, so there's no ground truth, so to speak. Okay, so that's something which I want you to keep in mind. So, let's move on. As I said, one of this section is this section is just get a sense of what alternative data sets are, and then we will, we will over various other, you know, points in this session, we will look at use cases. How are funds using this data? How are they extracting alpha from these data sets? How are they managing risk from these data sets? We will have a look at it. Okay, so as I said, just to reiterate, if you find any of these, any, any of this bite-size explorations, probably redundant or bite-sized explanation not relevant to you. Just hold on, because we will be covering a range of these aspects of NLP, and I'm reasonably certain that some of them will resonate. So, maybe this is useful for you right now, maybe this is not, depending upon where you are in your trading journey, or where, where do you sit in terms of your trading infrastructure? Okay, now let's move on to something, which is, which is off the shelf. What are the tools that you can use off the shelf to get a sense of, you know, the data sets, and especially in this space, what are some of the off-the-shelf tools that are available. The first concept, which I want to talk about, is a concept of identifier, permanent identifier, and one of the.. one of the.. okay, before I move on, there's a question. Authenticated data vendors provide semi-processed firm or industry news data in JSON or XML format for investors. Yes, absolutely. So, most of the data vendors provide like what I showed you right now.

Speaker 1  38:08  
You know, the news - what I showed you was one news item, but typically, you know, this is if you see my screen here, this is a day's worth of news item. It's a JSON data. Each news item is a, is a each row is a news item, and this can be programmatically ingested into your algorithms. And then there are many things that you can do. Yes, so which means most of the data vendors, when you subscribe, they typically give you in a format that can be readily digested by a program. Now, coming back to this one of the questions one of you had mentioned in the chat is like, how do I know what asset name is being talked about in the news article? It's a very important question, because asset names can be in variety of formats, and what this is a problem, which as a company we ourselves faced around 1520 years ago, where each company was its in its own naming convention. One was there were trading names, alias names, subsidiary names, and so on and so forth. How do we actually make sense of this data? So what we created internally, and now we have opened it as a as an open data standard is a concept of ID. What do we, what we do is, we we stamp a permanent identifier for various kinds of assets. So, what you're seeing on my com, what you're seeing on my screen is, for every organization there will be a 10 digit number, for every quote, there'll be a 10 digit number for every instrument, there'll be a 10 digit number. So, these are things, think of these as bar codes for for companies, for instruments, for codes. And why is this important? And why am I explaining in this section? The reason is, this is released under open data, which means if you use these identifiers. In your own data set, you don't, you won't have to pay any licensing fees. These are we have released under open data. Now, what does it mean, and how does it look like? Let me just open the open site here. So, what you're seeing is here is one of the sites. This is the one. Once again. the one once I'll try to open where I've logged in, so this perm editor to RG, you can log in, I mean, you can require some, require some, some kind of a credentials from you, and then you can get this, this, this is, as you can imagine, this is under open data. Okay, what does open data mean? It essentially means you can use these numbers in your own data set, in your own trading strategies, in your own reference data management. You don't have to pay. So, what does it mean when we say let's say we pick a company called Starbucks, and when you see Starbucks, there is a 10 digit number associated with the Starbucks, and there are many Starbucks across the world, as you know, for each of these subsidiaries, for each of these branches, we have a separate identifier, for example, if I click on this, you will see that we capture information as to what is a company, whether it is a public company or not, where, whether it is gone for IPO, what are the industries associated with the company, headquarters for the company, and what is, you know, what is a rick, what is a ticker, where is it trading, you have offices and directors, all of this is under open data. Open data means if you have the key, you can actually hit this API, and you can get this data. So, in the context of this, I have - I think I've sent you a - I've sent you a Jupyter Notebook, so you can, you can actually execute this, execute this Jupyter notebook by yourself, and you can see, for example, for a 10 digit number, you can actually get the data again. This data is, is, is in, is in a graph data format, which means in today's world there are Python libraries that can take, take this and actually give you in a nice, nice format that you can understand, and that you can digest. So, there is various kinds of format. What I'm showing you is JSON format, JSON-LD format.

Speaker 1  42:28  
The reason why this Python notebook is useful is for you to get a sense that, look, this data what I'm showing you here is actually available programmatically, and this is not available for one or two companies, and millions of companies where you know you have public companies, private companies, where you can hit this endpoint and you can get the data. And why am I, why am I talking in the context of all data? The reason why I'm talking in terms of all data is it is very important to know to have an identifier for a company, so that if a news is talking about Starbucks Corp, we attach this identifier to that news item. If it is talking about Starbucks in Japan, we are attached that specific identifier to that news item. So that's very critical. Why, or why am I talking about all of this? So, if you take a new site, it is very important to identify if it's mentioning, let's say, three companies. This company might not be a parent company, it might be a subsidiary company. This company, another mention of a company could be a parent company. This could be another subsidy of another parent company subsidiary, or both are mentioned, parent and subsidiary. So, for each of them, you cannot have names. Names is going to be very difficult for a program to, to let's say, to process. If you have IDs with this subsidiary, you have an ID for for this company, you have an ID for parent, you have an ID, that's when what you, what you can do is, again, this is a context of NLP and trading, you can then say that, okay, this news item has ID one mentioned, and this is a, this is a sentiment, maybe it's positive for the second company, which is ID two, it is negative for second, third company, which is ID three. It is maybe neutral. So, the mapping of news item to sentiment is only possible. It cannot be possible with names. If you have names here, it's going to be fuzzy, and that's why these IDs are very important. So, is this per is this per ID assigned by LSAC. Yes, it is definitely an identifier which we maintain, because this is something which we internally faced a problem 10 to 15 years ago. We have solved the problem internally, and now we are exposing this to the outside world, which means again, this, this session, this, this slide becomes in. Important, this identifiers are meant are stamped by us, and it is, you can use it, you can use it for your internal, you know, joining data, internal maintenance data, you know, you're, you don't have to pay anybody, so that's that's that's what we mean by open data. Now, I don't want to get into too many details, but this, these are the kinds of entities for which we have - we have perm ID. It could be a geography, it could be industry, currency, language. I mean, for our post, for our purpose of trading, essentially you can think of that every company as a perm ID, every company, every court has a perm ID, so think of these as IDs, which you can use internally in your to get a sense of, you know, combining data and doing some analysis in the data, without this identifies it becomes very difficult, with names you can't work on this, okay, so that's a one that's like bite-sized understanding of what, why this, why this perm IDs are important. If, and please remember that every com you will come across different identifiers, Bloomberg will have an ID, facts, it will have an ID, SNP will have an company identifier, so the this it's up to, is there a common ID that is followed for a company across the financial services industry. Unfortunately, the answer is no. Unfortunately, the answer is no. So you might be thinking, okay, how do how do companies manage this? How do companies manage this? Let's say I'm talking about a company with a specific ISON or a seed all or let's say market ticker, how do how do I map to identify?

Speaker 1  46:49  
So, typically what happens is in most of this vendors you have a perm ID to ISIN mapping, so you then you take your ISIN map it to the ISIN and then you could go to the POM ID. There is, there are also name matching tools that I mean, this is a different, different topic altogether. How do you match a particular company portfolio to the perm IDs to FactSet IDs to Bloomberg IDs? That itself is a big topic, but Sapphire. But what you have to understand, at least at this point in time, for ours, for our session, is there needs to be an identifier. Without identifiers, it becomes very fuzzy to do any downstream analytics. Okay, now what we have now, we'll move into second, another bite-size session, which is okay. Once you have these identifiers, how are banks, how are trading firms using these identifiers, and one of the ways they are using this identifiers is by a knowledge graph. What is knowledge graph? Knowledge graph is where you collect important entities. When I say important entities, they could be person, they could be organizations, instruments, codes, and you connect this in the form of a graph, in the form of graph, so let me probably show your demo, so that it's clear, and then we can, and we can see what, what not, what knowledge graph is all about. Just give me a second while I pull the demo, I So what I'm going to show you is how does how are people using knowledge graph, and as a people, it's as a general term, I'm saying many players in the financial services industry, how are they using knowledge graph once they put this knowledge graph into their premises. So what we are going to explore is what are the kinds of entities that you can put it in a graph format, and how can you explore this graph format. Okay, so we look at one example, which is let's say we look at Alibaba, for example, and then if you put Alibaba's supply chain network in a graph, so what you're seeing on my screen is this, the middle central element is the is the main company Alibaba, and all these companies that you're seeing here are in the supply chain of Alibaba, which are one hop away now for illustration, I've just shown you one hop, but you can again let's say take one particular company and then figure out which which companies is it a supplier of, so there could be multiple hops that you can explore, and why is this important from a trading perspective? Suppose there is a negative news item on one of these subs, one of these elements, one of these entities in the supply chain. If it is immediate supplier, then you know it's already captured in the news. Everybody knows that you know this is an immediate supplier of Alibaba, and something happens with that supplier, maybe there will be a problem with Alibaba. Know ecosystem, and then that's that's obvious, but once you get into level two, I mean, when I say level two, hop to hop three, hop four, then it news doesn't capture that, because new news is only capturing the essence of what's happening, maybe at the first level, and companies are actually, when I say companies, funds are actually trying to put this knowledge graph together internally. Now, this was not possible, actually, maybe 10 to 15 years ago. There were no infrastructure to build graphs. There was no infrastructure for a hedge fund to actually host all of this in the graph format. But today, thanks to cloud, thanks to technologies like graph databases, this space has become democratized. What do I mean by democratized? If you look at the vendors that are available right now, you have you have AWS Neptune, where you can take your graph data and host it. You have Tiger Graph, which is again a very strong player in the graph market, you have Neo 4j I'm sure Neo 4j is something some of you might have come across. So, these are all graph databases that today exist, and you can actually.. there is a managed option, meaning you pump in your graph data, and you don't have to worry about.

Speaker 1  51:17  
you don't have to worry about infrastructure, you and this was not possible, maybe 10 years ago, but thanks to in all the cloud and related technologies, this is possible, and this we are seeing that clients and across all all sizes are actually taking the data, stitching the data, and trying to come for this graph data. Now, why is this powerful? As I said, supply chain news propagation across supply chain becomes very powerful. You look at investment rounds, for example, some of some of the clients are actually looking at various investment rounds. They're mapping up companies who are involved in the investment round, investment strategic investment, for example. If a company, which are which are the companies it has done a strategic investment in, and this is typically in the investment banking side. Who do macro plays, so even macro teams, for example, we have seen where they're building this knowledge graph internally, where they track all these strategic investments in a graph format, because as you can imagine, first level hop is very easy, but if this company has done a strategic investment in this, imagine we want to know what all the other companies have also participated and done transactions in this, so that level of comprehensive picture you can only get via graph database and via graph form, and why I'm, why am I saying this? Is that all the data that I've shown you right now in the tech, so far, this is something a lot of companies' funds are internally doing. It, they take our data, they take LSEC data, they take their own data, they stitch together, and then this start playing with, they start hosting this graph, and then it becomes very powerful infrastructure. Now, one thing you must probably walk away is with what kinds of elements are there in this graph, right? So, what are people building graphs on? What are the data sets that are taking, they're building the graph? So, one thing you must remember is graph is typically not good. What you have to understand, what is it good? What is it not good? It is not good for, let's say, high frequency data. When I say high frequency data, I mean thick data, you know, wall data, which is, which, which is very, very high frequency. People are not storing high frequency data, what is what is the kind of frequent data that people, that everybody's storing this graph data is usually low frequency data or mid frequency. Now you might say, what is low frequency and what is mid frequency? Low frequency is all you know the relationship between companies, which is an ultimate parent, what is subsidiary of those companies? So org structure, these won't change every day. I mean, they will change, of course, over a period of time, but aug structure of a company is not something as granular, is not going to be super, it won't change on a day to day basis. Similarly, a company and its trading instruments, equity instruments, debt instruments is not going to change on a tick by tick basis. Supply chain is not going to change on a tick by tick basis. So, the and people who are the people associated with company, these are these are the kinds of data set, this is the kinds of data points that are amenable to graph representation, and of course, there is a value in representing this data as a graph, and all of this, by the way, is I'm speaking from not from theoretical experience, is all what I've seen funds actually investing time and effort in building these, setting up these in. General data feeds, so as to help their funds, so as to help their research analysts, quants, and portfolio managers. Okay, so just to again get a sense of what this is, I'll not get, I'll not get into what kind of, how does a graph data look like? Maybe I'll quickly show if it is, if I've created somewhere. Yeah, so you might wonder, what? How is this graph data? Is it like a tabular format? Is it a JSON format? Is an XML format. So, typically, this, the format in which graph data is represented, is is by a standard format, which goes by the name RDF.

Speaker 1  55:39  
So, this word probably some of you might look familiar, so RDF is is a standard where they specify this is how you have to, you have to create graph data, and this is one way, this is an XML version where you, where you specify, you follow that standard and create a graph data, then there is also there are different ways in which you can follow the standard, so this is another format where there is something called subject object triple, again for someone who's familiar with how to represent graphs in an adjacency list, you have subject, you have you have object, and you have predicate, so think of it as like, okay, you have an, you have a node here, you have another node, here, and you have an edge, so you, for every graph that you can think of, you can break it down into just these triples. These are called triples. You have a subject, object, and a predicate. So, there are ways in which you can represent this graph data as a triple, so for example, what you're seeing on my screen, the first line is subject, object, and predicate, so this is one way I don't want to get into the too much, too many details of this, but the take away from this byte size exploration is that this alternative data, which is mid frequency and low frequency data, there is a massive value in creating that as a graph data, and then the lot of interesting use cases are can be realized. Now we'll get into another important, again, these are all, as I said, is a bite-size explorations. Just to recap, what we have seen so far is we have looked at alternative data. What are the kinds of alternative data? News sentiment data, we have looked at multi-dimension sentiment data. We have looked at perm ID, which is you need some identifier to make sense of what the news is about, what the transcript is about, what the filing is about. These are very important, unless you have that identifies it becomes difficult to type. Now we'll get into the analysis part of it. So, what is analysis? What do I just to give some primer to it? What we're going to look at is, I'll.. this is a what you're seeing on my screen. Screen is a text. Now, we don't know what this text is about. You have to read that, read this to get a sense of, okay, what is this talking about? Is it a company news? Is a commodity news, is a cryptocurrency news? What is it? We don't know, I mean, unless you read it. So this is where I want to first introduce an NLP engine that can take this and then it can spit out specific, specific statistics, specific NLP analytics that will help us understand what this news item is talking about, so let me go back to, let me go back to this again. This is something which I'm showing, because you can, you can yourself try this tool, once you have this key, you can try this tool. So, what I'm going to do is, I'm going to copy paste this entire text item, entire text text data into this, into this UI, and I'm going to say tag it, so you'll see in a few seconds what it does. So, what has it done? If you look at the output, so if it has arranged, it has taken this news item, it has done some NLP analytics, and what has it given as output? It has given output as all the entities that are available, so you see this. These are, think of this as you know, common nouns. If you think about it, so it has identified, let's say, the companies there. It's saying that there it has found companies, and you see this. If I, if I, if I show you, what are the companies here? It has identified all these companies in the news article: Dell, Quest Software, Sonic Wall Entity Data Corp, and for each of them, please make a please notice that it has also stamped an identifier. Why this is important is because if you want to figure out all the news about this company, you can't search by name, you'll have to.

Speaker 1  59:59  
Each news item will have this particular identifier, and then you specify this identifier, and you can get all the news. Okay, but we are not talking about news here. Please remember, we are talking about what this tool is doing, and this is a this is a tool that you can, you can access from, from your, from, from your infrastructure. It doesn't require any licensing. All you have to do is get an API key, so what are we doing here? You're, you're getting, and you're taking a news item, which, which we don't know what it is about. When I say you don't know, you have to read through it, like if you're an equity research analyst, you'll probably read through, but what are you doing here? You're actually sending that news item into, into this, I mean, there is an API interface also for this, but I'm showing a UI, so that it's easily - you can one can easily understand what is doing. So, what is it doing? It's essentially going through this text, and it is finding out what are the companies here. It is identified all the companies here. It is identifying what are the who are the people mentioned in this news item, it's also mentioned, it also identifying the relations. So, if you see this, it's mentioning what are the acquisition relationships, what are the company locations, any business relationships mentioned. It's also talking about what industries is this news item all about. So, investment management, management computer programming, so all of this, and is also figuring out topics, so think about this. What did what this tool has done is within a span of few seconds it is taking something which is unstructured and it is creating all this data, and mind you, the data that comes out of this tool is in a graph format, too. So, of course, as you can imagine, this is all connected, right? One news item will have many companies, that company will have different people associated, which might be mentioned here. So, the output is enough, as you can see here, view RDF. I'm not going to show that RDF, but essentially it's a graph data. Now, this is one way to look at how these tools can be used. So, this is probably the first instance where you are seeing, I mean, at least I'm sure you would have seen such tools earlier, but from from the point of view of this session, you're starting to see where tools come into picture, where an LP comes into picture. You need tools to identify companies, you need tools to identify topics mentioned in the news item. Again, from this, we'll, of course, have to get something concrete. What was.. what would be the concrete? Maybe get sentiment. Some sentiment, you probably want to have signals on top, kind of a buy signal, sell signal. All that will come. We will get to that. But right now, where we are in this journey is to understand that there is a need for this technology, where it can, it can go through the unstructured data and create basic entities, basic entities to do, and to do for the number crunch. Okay, so going back to what I was mentioning here, now this probably the slide will make sense, where we are talking about tagging. So the word tagging is something which you will come across very common. It's used by a lot of vendors, where this, where they usually say our unstructured data is tagged, our news items are stacked, our transcripts are tagged, so tagging means the word. When, when you say stag, the first thing that should, of course, tag means in the context of social media, everybody knows what tagging is, but in the context of alternative data, when somebody says tag, it automatically should, should make you think about all this metadata that can be attached to any, any, any structured or any unstructured news item or any unstructured data. Okay, now, How does this work again? This, this, this is something which is owned by LSEC, but the point is, you are, you probably have to only care about what does it give, and I've already shown you what it gives. It gives you a set of a set of companies, people, topics, and so on and so forth. Okay, now the best way to understand is a demo.

Speaker 1  1:04:15  
I always feel if you see a demo, you'll probably understand how this whole thing can be put together for, let's say, your workflow, your trading, you know, portfolio. How can I take this tool and actually start using this tool? Okay, let me quickly show a demo that's far easier to just give me a second to load this demo. So, while the demo loads, I'm going to give some context to what this demo is all about. This demo is taking a bunch of articles, news items, and running this engine tagging engine, and once you run this in. Each news item into this tagging engine, each of them will give you an output. Now, what is what is this output? It will contain companies, it will contain topic codes, it will contain and people mentioned in this. Each of this new news item, so each news item, there will be a output file. Okay, so think about let's say you have about 250 news item, which is what I'm going to show, because it's probably easy to showcase that. And once you run this, about 202 100 documents through this engine, what you're seeing on my screen is it has identified these are basic summary stats. It has identified 400 companies, it has identified 166 people. It has identified 81 organizations, so on and so forth. What you're seeing on that right hand side is it has identified these relations, company affiliates, acquisition, joint ventures, and here what you're seeing is the mapping. When I say mapping, these, this is represents the mapping that is done to each perm ID. I'll show you what that means in a second, but at a high level, that the way you have to digest this is that you're taking news items here, you're running it through an engine, and then you get a sense of, okay, what are the entities mentioned, what are the relationship meant. At a high level. Now you can actually put it in a graph format, and then this is where things become very powerful, where you have a graph format of what are the companies, what are the news, which company there is a lot of news present, which company probably there's a maybe there is one off news item present now. Think about this in whatever format that you are consuming news today. Most of the time it is, if you are, if you're, if your eyes are consuming it, it is typically maybe in this format, right? Let's say you have, you have, you have a, you have a tabular format, like you have headline, you have your time, you have source, you have probably headline, and you have all these new sites, how you're consuming this is a linear structure, it's not a graph structure, you, you probably have to mentally figure out which company, which news item talks to which new site, new type, or is there connection, but imagine once you put this news items into a graph, you pass it through this engine, and then you see a holistic picture. Then you, you start thinking, these are the tools for ideation. If you think about it, which company is being mentioned? What is this company that is mentioned in this news item? Each bubble, each blue bubble, by the way, is a company, and all of these are you can take millions of news items, find out the companies, you can say, "Show me all the companies which are in Asia. Show me all the companies which are talking about, show me all the news items which are talking about metals in mining sector. So, in this case, let me show you in this relationship. Okay, so let's look at acquisitions. So, what you're seeing again on my screen is every blue bubble about some kind of an acquisition that has been mentioned, okay? And if you, if you, if you take any of these specific bubbles and start analyzing. You are seeing that here each bubble is an acquisition, and you are getting a sense of which is a company being acquired, which is the acquiring company. What are the news items that I'm mentioning this acquisition? What are the stats meaning? Where is it actually collecting this information?

Speaker 1  1:08:39  
Ultimately, this is done by an engine, it's not, it's not done by some, some machine, some, some human, because it's impossible to scale across millions of news items to find out what acquisitions are happening, so point I'm trying to say is these kind of tools are increasingly being used by macro traders, by systematic investors, by systematic traders to quickly figure out connections, because going from something like this, which is a tabular structure where there are news, to this is far more, far more appealing and far more comprehensive for analysis. Now, so far, what I've shown you is entities, I have shown you relationships. Now, where is the, where is the importance of BOM idea? Again, this is where things become very interesting. Where once you have a particular news item being mentioned for a company, you would want to have an identifier. So, in this case, this is talking about a company, which is DBS Bank Limited. You need to have an identifier, because unless this is there, it becomes very difficult for you to tie that company to various other data points. Okay, we can also have a sense of, okay, topic code, for example, how many, how many, let's say, news item. Are mentioning about crude oil, so this is a crude oil topic code. These are all the news items that are talking about topic code. So again, I don't want to get spend like hours on this. The point that take away from this should be there are tools available that can take unstructured data like this, it can convert this data into something like this, where it can parse the news items, it can figure out what are the companies, what are the people associated with it, what are the relations that are associated with it, and then once you have that, you can then put it in a graph format for very comprehensive analysis. Now, this is something. So, one of the questions, are we seeing data from LSEC load into a tool developed by Refinitiv? Yes. So, this is all internally developed by Refinitiv LSEC for showcasing this data, but the point, again, the broader point is this is the broader point. Any unstructured data, any unstructured data, before you think of extracting alpha, so everybody is, I mean, everybody wants to extract alpha as quickly as possible, and that's, and that's the reason we are all here. But at the end of it, what we must understand is any unstructured data should go through this NLP pipeline, whether you build it yourself internally, whether you outsource it, whether you take the help of a vendor. This NLP pipeline will involve what I showed you just now, which is what are the entities mentioned in the specific unstructured data, what are the relationships mentioned in the unstructured data, what are the topics mentioned in unstructured data? Is a data itself does the data itself come up, come with these metadata? Then it becomes easy. You don't have to, you just have to filter based on those unstructured data, metadata. Okay, now I want to show you something, which, of course, is thanks to LLM developments. Lot of these things are now capable, or are now in the hands of a retail investor, or a small-scale team, to do it by themselves, because if you ask me, maybe five to 10 years ago, all of this required probably a lot of infrastructure investment, lot of investment in terms of people, effort, and so on, and so forth, but thanks to LLM, lot of these things, lot of the stars that I mentioned in terms of pipeline are becoming easier. Okay, so what do I mean by that? Let me quickly show you a demo, I So what we're going to do is we are going to take the same article, which, which we spoke about, and we are going to use, let's say, a GPT to do this, okay? And the idea is, let's, let's take the same article, which you spoke about, okay, and instead of calling an engine, we will ask the Elastic LLM to do the same thing, and we'll see what it responds, and what I, what I have given is a basic prompt to say, okay, identify the companies in this.

Speaker 1  1:13:15  
Okay, so what you're seeing on my screen is it's once it hits the API, GPT API today LLMs have become very powerful, where it can identify the companies that I mentioned. What you're seeing on my screen is it has identified the companies. Now it's not only this, I mean, we can, we can, we can go and, you know, query for all the kinds of relations that we have that we can probably think about, for example, identify person in the text. Okay, these are all simple. We have just given a simple prompt, and we said, "Okay, identify. So you look at this, this is actually able to identify all the people associated, and most importantly, for the for the for our no understanding we can say okay topics again and just doing a mirror one to one comparison of what we saw earlier people relationships companies any we can look at any industries mentioned these are all the problems these are all things that have become very easy today, where with a call of with a simple call to an LLM, you can actually find out all of this metadata. Okay, what are the industries? What are the companies? What are the relationships? We saw that, you know, the engine was getting all the relationships. We cannot, we can ask the engine also, we can ask LLM to do these things. For example, see, as you can see on my screen, you're it's figuring out what are the entities, what are the relationships between these entities, so it's figured out what is entity, what is entity one, entity two relationship, what is the description, so of course. The very, besides this, the, you know, there are many benefits of NLM, which I don't have to specify. You all, I'm sure you all know that, which is basic summarization of the text, conversion of the text, sent sometime it also, it also does sentiment analysis, but again, we need to, you need to be careful of when it, when it says sentiment analysis, because we know that it is a, it's a, it's at the end of it, there is no machine learning model that is attached to it, it's based on the text, and it crunches out sentiment. Now, the point of this demo is that what, what I showed you in this, in this as an available tool, open source tool, you can today you can get this done in the form of let's say the LLM capabilities are so advanced that you can get all of this done, so again I've put in some slides in one RDF, as I'm sure not most of you would be interested, but this is how typically the graph data format looks like for tagging, also, I mean, if you look at the Jupiter notebooks that I've sent across, there is a specific tagging demo, I think I think I've shared a particular Excel on top topic text causing us. Let me see, where I've shared that. There is one of these. There's one one Jupyter notebook where you can use the same, use the same thing. What, what we have done on a UI, you can use that, you can use your API key, and you can actually execute this, these cells again. Why, and why these cells are important, or why this experience is important. You'll get a sense of, okay, what does it.. in what does it take to tag a new site? How do you act? How does that news item look like? Can I tag one news item? So, as I'm speaking, I'm just executing all these cells. It doesn't take a lot of time to just experiment with this. Let's say you have a set of news items and you want to tag those news items, so for example, I'm showing you have three news items, but nothing stops you from tagging like hundreds of news items, right? So I'm just showing you what you can do programmatically, and then you can extract all this relationship and try to make sense out of it. One of the questions is, what is the significance of RDF and triple formats, and the relative context? I mean, when to use each of these data structures. So, okay, so that's slightly technical question, but I'll answer it right away, because if you actually think of productionizing this, you have to think about all these questions.

Speaker 1  1:17:44  
So, in that sense, they are very important questions. So, whenever you have any, any news item, and you, there's a news item on filing or a transcript, any unstructured data, and let's say you, you have identified this, the data in a graph format, meaning you have identified what the comp, what is a node one, what is node two, and what is the edge? Suppose you have this now, you can follow several formats, as I said, you can follow an XML format, we can follow a triple format, you can follow, there are many other formats that you can follow, which all are following the RDF spec. Now, why should I take one? Why should I use triples? Why should I use this? This is typically the answer to that question, is typically dependent on what graph database that you are using. So, some of the, some of the graph databases support N-triple format. Some of the graph database take XML format. So, which one to select in terms of representing graph data is purely a, an operational decision. There is no, I mean, you have to decide what graph database you use, and then you pump the data, so there is no.. how should I say, there is no content wise is the same content, whether you represent in this, whether you represent in this, it's the same content. So, the answer to your question is, you can choose whatever format, depending upon where you're putting this data in, which graph database you're using. Okay, so so far what we have seen, just to just to come back to this question, come back to where we are. I've shown you a couple of things. One, I've shown you how to, how to look at off the shelf tools. When I say off the shelf tool, we'll, we have looked at Palm ID, we have looked at the tagging engine, how tagging engine works. We have looked at knowledge graph, and all of these. There is a.. I've shown you demos, but there is also.. there are also Python notebooks that you can play with it. Okay, so coming back to where. Ra, coming back to our session, so we have completed two sessions, and we have two sections of this session. So, we have maybe I will start with a part of this section, and then we'll go on to a break, and then we'll come back, and then we'll look at demos. Okay. Yes, just give me nine, maybe 10 minutes, we'll get into a demo before we get into demo. Maybe I'll also talk about something which is slightly dull. When I say dull, it's not many people will be too much interested in this, but as a session, I think I should do justice by covering this, which is in any data that you take. In any data that you take, usually you have to do some cleansing. I mean, when you, when you take structured data, like tick data, order book data, option data, whatever, you do some cleansing. Now, in the world of NLP, you, of course, have to do cleansing, because it's even more messier. It's unstructured data. For example, even if you take a simple news item like this, if you look at this, there is, there's always some bit of, you know, text which is useless from, from some of the perspective sentiment and from the perspective understanding. So you have to clean them. So these are what I'm showing you on the screen, are some of the things that you can easily find in many of the modern packages. 10 years ago, these you probably would have required a PhD to do all of them, but in today's world it's very easy. There are many, many software packages: Python, R, Julia, you can name it, Pi Spark. All of these stars you can do very easily, and will you, would you be the person doing it, or would your team be doing it, or would you, would you not care about it? There are various ways in which you can look at it. Some, some of you might say, "Okay, I don't care about this. Why do I need to think about all of this? You might not care about this, but when you're buying, for example, you're buying a data product, you're evaluating a specific NLP output.

Speaker 1  1:22:05  
It could be sentiment, it could be something that you know an engine does on out on the text. You will have to think about, has the vendor done this, has this guy done this, or has the team actually taken all of this into consideration. So, from that perspective, a basic understanding of these skills of these tasks are required. Again, these are very cover them very quickly. It's not going to be, it's not going to take a lot of time. So, one is, of course, very obvious thing, white spaces. You, there's no point in most of these, most of these NLP techniques, they don't need all of this white space, whether you want to change, especially in sentiment analysis, we have seen that unless you are looking at social media, most of these journalistic texts, it doesn't matter whether you change to lowercase or uppercase, punctuation, you know, removing punctuations, driven numbers, stop word removal, these are all examples of how you take a text and you do all of this lemmatization strip white spaces and of course one of the questions can can can all of these done by various LLM models, of course they can be done, but we don't know how you know the efficacy of that depends on what LLM model you're using, there might be some kind of evals, I mean, you know what you have to evaluate the output at the end of it, but what I'm showing you are proper ways in which the library is built to actually do specifically this. Now, when I say library is built, I probably talk about one library, which is Spacey. Now, Spacey is more than a decade old, I think, and it has a very good set of functionality to do all of this cleansing. Again, from your perspective, probably it's in it's enough to know if you're not going to use this to know that there are such libraries which probably are better than relying on LLMs. The LLM, the advantages, you can do it quickly, but then it is own, it is your responsibility to figure out whether it's hallucinating, whether it is doing the right thing or not, but libraries like this, which are built by a set of experts, you can use this libraries and start doing all of these text cleansing, and for this, if you just, if you're curious enough to, how to work with this, I have, I think I have, I have sent you a Jupyter notebook, which, which you can look through it and understand how the space he works again at a very high level. What we are looking at is a solid library, Python library, which you can use to do a lot of these tasks. For example, you can load a news item. Then you can look at, let's say, you can, you can, you can extract entities, you can extract parts of speech, you can extract all of these things. Okay, so this is something which is maybe 10 years ago, you need PhDs to understand all of this and write the code today. It's available. Uh, very easily, and you can just install library and get this done. So, the point I'm trying to make is when you have these libraries playing with this and probably spending a couple of hours will give you a much better idea of what this space is all about, especially when somebody says we are doing processing, we are cleansing the data, we are clean. I mean, even if you do, let's say you're scraping data, for example, and you want your retail investor, and you, you want to somehow scrape data from some certain new sources, and you do some basic text cleansing. These skills are going to be super useful. Of course, the scale at which you are doing will probably need you to do here, do it on Pi Spark, do it on Databricks, or what platform you can think of, but the technology, if you understand it, becomes very easy, so, so that's what I meant by text processing, and we will, the next step from this is, of course, what will happen once you process the text, okay, that's the next part we will, will, will have to think about, and we will spend some time, but I have, we have three minutes before we get into a break.

Speaker 1  1:26:08  
I just want to show you something in terms of how these, once you process the text, what happens, okay? There are, again, there are several ways we look at into what after we process, we have to, I mean, the in the earlier sessions, and most of the participants in the session, they are very keen on understanding. Okay, how do I build my own sentiment model? I have a set of news, I want to build my own sentiment model. That's one of the one of the common questions that we see from many participants. If you have to build your own sentiment model, and let's say you don't want to buy, you don't want to spend time and effort in terms of evaluating other vendors and evaluating what is available, and if you want to buy develop yourself, these things which I'm going to talk about are going to be super critical, meaning you have to take the data, you have to clean the data, and then what do you do with the data, we have to, of course, put some kind of a machine learning model to get a sentiment out of, so where we are in this, in this journey, is we have, we have understood that we have a text and we have to cleanse it, is no doubt about it, once we cleanse it, we again have a cleanse text, but this is a text, this is a text, but Where are numbers? No, if you have to come up with sentiment, we have to come up with machine learning model. We need to have some kind of a conversion of this text to numbers, and once we have the text to number representation, we have to build, let's say, a sentiment model. Okay, so that workflow we will, we will spend some time in understanding how this workflow can be done using, let's say, traditional libraries, how these workflows can be, let's say, done using LLMs, because ultimately, at the end of it, you want signal, you want some kind of a signal, sentiment signal, and then you work with the signal, so we will take a break of 15 minutes, but before we get into break into break, I just want to re-emphasize what we're going to do. After we come back from take, we are going to look at how to convert text into numbers. What are the popular ways to do it? From numbers, we are going to look at how numbers can be translated into a sentiment signal. Then we are going to look at few use cases or trading strategies, where you use these numbers to come up with various ways to extract alpha, so that's that's broadly what we are going to do after we come back from break. So, let's take a break for 15 minutes, and then then we'll resume the second session. is ESG data, you know, and several such data sets where the predominant element is unstructured. The data is unstructured. Hello everyone. Welcome back to the second part of the session. So, before we begin, maybe I'll quickly summarize what we have done in the first part of the session, so that, so that we can then continue what we wanted to discuss, so if you remember, we looked at a couple of things. Give me a second. Yeah, we looked at a couple of things. One is all data, what all data is in terms of consumption. What are the water hedge funds? What are HFT firms and traders consuming? We saw that there are there is news element to it, there is sentiment data, there It is not market discovered. There needs to be some analytics done on these data sets. Then we looked at the concept of identifier. When it's a concept, it is something which in some way everybody has to figure it out. How do we attach an identifier for various assets that are mentioned in these whole data?

Speaker 1  1:45:19  
And then we looked at knowledge graph, where you can connect all of these news items, and then extract information from these news items, and then we then looked at tagging, because tagging at the end of it, tagging is one of the ways in which you can, you can attach, you can figure out what the entities are, what relationships are, again, there is an open source, I mean, you can, you can do, do it using LLM. There are open source tools available. There are many things that we can do to extract information in terms of these things. We also looked at cleansing. What we saw was basic cleansing, because if you have to write your own pipeline, you have to kind of cleanse this text, then we, we before getting into the break, then we saw we had to convert this cleanse text into numbers, and of course, from numbers we need sentiment. So, what we'll do is, before we get into this, maybe I'll quickly show you a demo of how, how one can actually use the sentiment data, maybe how are our clients using it, and then we will get into this aspect of, you know, how do we take a text data and then how do we convert that text data into a number. So I'm sure some of you are interested in that also. So what we will do right now is look at a few use cases of how sentiment is being used in trading strategies. Okay, first thing that you need to know, for our first use case that a lot of clients are using this is as a price overlay. So, what you're seeing on my screen is the blue line is the price of Alibaba, and the orange line is the sentiment. When I say sentiment, this is some kind of a summarized sentiment on a daily basis, because the sentiment data is high frequency data, so it's going to be a summarized information. If you look at actual raw sentiment, it's going to be like this, meaning on a daily basis, if you look at, if you, if you actually do take us, let's say, average sentiment, or it could, you could probably do some summary statistic of the sentiment, it's going to, it's going to fluctuate a lot, and if somebody sees this information, they might walk away thinking that, oh, this data is actually useless, because this for this company on a daily basis, the sentiment is moving so fast, or so volatile. What, what can you make out of this sentiment? So, this is where the first thing I would probably want you to pay attention is most of the sentiment data that comes out of any place, whether you crunch yourself, whether you crunch, whether you take data set from a vendor, it's going to be like this. It's going to be high frequency, it's going to be noisy. So, even though we said, okay, if there's a text, you have to cleanse the text and then use it, even in the case where you completely outsource it, meaning you don't want to do any cleansing, you just want to take somebody else's sentiment data and start using in your trading applications. That's number one. Or you want to create your own sentiment, and you start using this data, there it is going to be noisy. That is the nature of this space, where there could be a positive news item about one company. Suddenly, there could be some news item, there could be a neutral news item. It's going to be very volatile on a given day, and you might not be able to see connection to the actual underlying price, if at all there is a connection. So, in this case, what I'm going to do is I'm going to apply a simple filtering method, which is a Kalman filter. So, these kind of filtering techniques are very, very, very common in quant space, where you take a high frequency signal, and you then try to remove the smoothen it out in a way that is probably it has it is grounded in some kind of a model when you filter it out. Now, there must be some sense to this madness, right? There's all over the place. You want to remove noise. How are there many ways to remove?

Speaker 1  1:49:27  
As I said, one is what I'm, what I've shown you here is state space models. It's typically it's it's called Kalman filter, and the many, many, there are variety of state space models. And by the way, none of this, you don't have to, like, you don't have to code a state space model by yourself. There are libraries that today that help you actually smoothen out this series, and there are many, many, many open source packages that can help you, but the thing is, you need to know what to use, when to use, how to use, and once you start using, for example, this is a poster child of how. The sentiment can be probably used as a signal, for example, here in this case, if I remove the y axis, there are 2y axis, as you can see. If I remove 2y axis, and if I remove the labeling, it is slightly difficult to figure out which is price chart and which is which is sentiment chart. If I remove both the y axis, and if I remove the labels, if I just put the time dimension, they look very similar, but this is not always the case. Let's say, if I, if I look at, let's say, China mobile, for example, you see that same filtering applied to a high frequency sentiment noise now becomes slightly difficult. It's not straightforward to use, meaning you see that from 2013 to 2015 the price went all over, all over the place, but sentiment kept rising, and then from 2015 onwards, maybe there is some bit of a trend where the price goes down and sentiment goes down. So, what is the take away from this kind of an example what we are saying is sentiment at the end of it is one signal, it could be multitude of factors that are affecting the price of a stock or price of whatever security you're trading, so all said and done, this should be people are using clients are using this as a complimentary signal. Now, there are certain companies for which this completely doesn't make sense at all, for whatever reason. For example, if you look at Facebook, the same data I'm showing real data here, where you, you take the sentiment data for this company, you crunch out the sentiment, and you look at the stock price of, let's say, Facebook, and the sentiment, it's in fact it's negatively correlated, so to speak. The sentiment is somehow coming down, the price is going up. So, which sentiment signal to use for which stock and which set of stocks is itself a research or is quant is a trader's call, but the point of showing these examples is that when you look at any company, when you crunch out sentiment, it's going to be noisy, whether you do it by in-house, whether you do it by yourself, whether you have a team to do this, or whether you out buy it from vendor, it's going to be noisy. Cleaning is extremely important. Once you are able to clean, you will be able to at least get some sense of whether it is having this, whether it is even following this price relationship or not. Now, you might ask, Okay, how do I do this cleaning again? There are many libraries, so what I've done, I think, is I've shared an Excel Jupyter notebook, which goes by the name State Space Modeling. Now, I don't expect you to execute right now, but you can at least look at what libraries are being used. How is it being done? So, most of the time it uses a library called Stats Model. Now, there are equal models in R. There are equivalent modules in Julia. When I came across stats model, I think the first, the place where they were fully developed were in R. R had a lot of maybe because of the associated association with academia. There are a lot of libraries in R, which help you do state space modeling, but when it comes to scalability, you will find a stats model is something more, which is far more easier and scalable, because R, at the end of it, it's you probably require a different kind of infrastructure to run. So, what I'm showing you in this Jupyter notebook is how you can take a set of sentiment data, and apply various kinds of model.

Speaker 1  1:53:44  
Here we have, if you look at this, there is something called local level model, and once you apply local level model, how does the sentiment look like? Even so, if you, if you look at this, this is the positive sentiment, how it's fluctuating, and then you filter it out, how smooth it becomes this whole notebook has a ton of models, and when I say ton of model, ton of variance of states-based model, you can look at local level model, then you can have, I think there are, there are few other models, deterministic trend model, local level with deterministic trend model, so understanding this, so we don't have to be like pure supremely mathematical to understand this. What we need to understand is what is this model, what is it fitting, and what is output, and how do I let's say evaluate these models and take one of these signals, so that that that is the kind of knowledge that comes on playing with this, playing with this data sets. So I fit many models. The point is, which model makes sense? Whether it makes sense for the stock, which model makes sense. You don't have to. What I'm saying is, you don't have to code this model. These models are already there. You will have to just try to use these models, and then come up with some way to cleanse, ultimately the. If you don't, the one takeaway that I need you to have is the data is going to be noisy, data is going to be noisy, so you will have to have these kind of packages, or some kind of pre-cleansing of the sentiment data to to use it. So this is one use case, where the first use case is, as I said, you use, you smoothen the sentiment signal, you overlay it on price, and then you get a sense of what, whether it makes sense for this use case or this specific stock. The second of obvious use cases, you have a portfolio of securities. Let's say you are, you're trading a set of securities, you have a portfolio of investments, and you want to figure out. Okay, how do I use sentiment data for this? Again, the one of the easiest way is, oh, tRNA is one of.. sorry about the acronyms here we have used, and it's called News Analytics, Thompson Routers News Analytics, and these are all old acronyms that are still lying in that complex, but sorry for that jargon. All I'm showing you is a ready-made, ready-made offering where you can take a company, and then you can get sentiment data. If you remember the Excel that I shared at the very beginning, you see that I shared an Excel where for any company on any given day you can get the probability of positive, neutral, and and negative sentiment. So, what I'm doing here in this demo is I'm just using this, I'm not - we're not trying to do quant on how these signals are convert computed in the first place, news analytics is gives you the signal, and then what you do is using the news analytics signal by default is going to be noisy, so what you do is you typically use some kind of a cleansing method, when I say cleansing method, it's like state space models are one of the class of making making the signal smooth, so what I've mentioned here is that one is price overlay, that's obvious. People are first thing that anybody will do is okay. This is how the security is moving. This is a sentiment. Should I even trust the sentiment or not? That's the first signal that you do. The second kind of a signal is where you can, you have a tradable security, or your universe of tradable securities that you are interested in, and if you look at this blue line on my on screen here, this blue line is how portfolio value has moved. Now, there are tons and tons of libraries which tell you, or you yourself can, with simple Python call, you can, any library you can tell it will give you what is a drawdown, what is a volatility, what is a keger, what is analyst ratio, information ratio, sharp ratio.

Speaker 1  1:57:49  
These are all very, I mean, it's it's standardized, you can get it very easily, but what you will not get from such things, such libraries or such data sets is what is alternative data world saying about my portfolio, and that's where this kind of overlay of sentiment signal is being used by many companies. Now I'm just talking, I'm not only talking about trading the many, many use cases where people or companies are overlaying sentiment data on portfolios to figure out whether there is any abnormal reaction in sentiment for any of the portfolios, so this is a this is another use case where you know you can look at sentiment of all the stocks in your portfolio and then you draw a portfolio level sentiment and then you take all on how this, how can this be used? So what we have seen so far, we have seen how sentiment is basically at a first level, how you can overlay sentiment on price, and then you can work through whether it makes sense to even incorporate. Now, what we'll do is, we'll actually, we'll actually look at trading strategy. Now, while the trading strategy data gets loaded, I'll probably give a context of context of trading strategy, and just to retread where we are in this journey, we, we were supposed, we have, we have understood text and text cleansing, and we wanted to get numbers out of it, and then get sentiment, so that's where we, we wanted to go, but we have taken a detour. I hope you figured out that we have not going on this journey given. We are instead, we are just exploring a few use cases. If you have the sentiment, if you have the sentiment, How are companies, how are hedge funds, how are everybody using it? As I said, the first one is price over. The second one, which I'm going to show you right now, is an FX trading use case. Okay, before I show you the FX trading use case, I'll, I'll, I'll, I'll give you some context on what this trading use case is all about. So, this is an FX strategy, and this is a weekly strategy, so we. Strategy. What do I mean by weekly strategy? Is the holding period is one week. Now, what is the strategy all about? So every start of the week the trader walks in, let's say Monday is the start of trading day, for example, trading week, he looks at the possible universe of FX pairs, he looks at a possible units of x pairs, and then he selects a few. He selects a few out of this. Now, how does he select? Now we are imagining, I mean, this session is using unstructured alternative data, so you won't be surprised when I say that the selection happens based on buzz. What is buzz? Buzz is the number of news items that are being written for various currencies. So, if a news, if there are a lot of news written about a specific currency, that means there is something that's happening. It's worth paying attention to. If there's not much of news item, news written about a certain currency, there probably is not interested, so this is the first instant where you are seeing probably where you are completely using a different feature, if you are, if you think about it, you never use bus to probably cleanse your, let's say, structured data, so buzz is something which is purely coming out of all data now. Where do, where do I get bus? If you look at, if you look at one of the files that I've shared, you see that in some of the data sets you actually have a feature called buzz, which act, which is a normalized way to capture the number of articles being written for that company, number of articles being written for the country, and so on and so forth. So this is something which comes out. You don't have to, you don't have to compute this. I mean, there are feeds, there are vendors which actually give you at an asset level how much buzz is being generated, and that's a fantastic filtering feature, because you, you take anything you would want to compute, you don't want to trust the sentiment, you want to trust all these values only if there is enough buzz, right?

Speaker 1  2:02:15  
If there is no buzz, probably you know you would not want to trust that sentiment at all, or trust the feature at all, so what is it? So, coming back to this trading strategy, what we are saying, the trader walks in every Monday or every start of the week, he selects some pairs based on us, and then once he selects those pairs, he is going to long a few currencies, is going to short a few currencies now. On what basis? Let's look at the demo to see you on what basis. So, what you're seeing on my screen is the trader is going to select, let's say, eight currencies, eight currency pairs, based on let's say one look back period is one week, meaning I come on a Monday, look at last one week data, I look at which of the currencies have made a lot of buzz, and only I'll select eight of them. Why eight? Why not seven? Why not six? That's that's something which you can discuss, but I'm saying this is a strategy which works, where he takes a, he or she takes eight of these currencies, and then he looks at uncertainty dimension. There are many dimensions. Remember, I said that if you look at the Excel, there are many dimensions that you can play with: sentiment, fear, joy, time urgency. But in this strategy, he's taking an uncertainty dimension, and what.. what does this trader doing? Is this. he's saying there are two currencies which are highly un which are showing a lot of uncertainty. I'm going to long them, and there are two currency pairs which are, which are showing less uncertainty. So he's basically longing the currencies which have a lot of uncertainty, is shorting the currencies which have less uncertainty, and then he does this week after week after week after week. So, this I'm showing you about 2015 about 15 years of trading. Okay, back testing goes, the back testing is for 15 years. Now we will see how this strategy performs. The idea is not to say that first, let's see the portfolio evolution. So, what you're seeing is the equity curve, meaning you start with a $1 where do you end up after this? You, the point of this back testing is not to say that this is the best back testing. This is a very interesting trade. You just go ahead and do it, and you'll make money. That's not the point. The point is more didactic, wherein we look at what are the elements of the strategy that you, as a trader, should pay attention to when you use alternative data. That's the point. Point is, what are the. Aspects of this trading strategy that can be used across various strategies or across alternative data. The first thing that you notice is, as I said, buzz. So this buzz, if I mean, if you, if you look at from the perspective of filtering, this is a common principle that we always see our clients using. They always filter based on bus, meaning if there is anything which is less than certain volume of news items, certain volume of coverage, you automatically remove those securities, as at least from the from your NLP analytics pipeline that will feed signals. So that is the first thing, where you are filtering the pairs based on bus. The second thing is what dimension that you take, that is a, of course, that is a quant question, but from our perspective, if you just pause and see how, how is the strategy using the dimension, it is essentially ranking. It is ranking, so if you think about it, you select eight eight FX pairs, and then you rank order them based on uncertainty, so you're not looking at absolute values. That is the, that is the point I'm trying to say. Absolute values are meaningless. Absolute values for sentiment are is meaningless. Only relative values make sense. So, this is something which we have seen time and again on many, many. I mean, they don't discuss most of the hedge funds and HFT firms, they don't disclose the strategies, but when we speak to them, this comes out very easily. It's where it comes out very, it becomes very obvious that most of them are using all data from a relative ranking perspective.

Speaker 1  2:06:52  
So, if you look at this strategy that I've shown, it is a rank. What have we done here? We have first selected eight stocks vision bus, again it's a sort of a ranking methodology, we have selected top two currencies based on uncertainty dimensions. When I say select, it is again ranking longing long currency, which pairs to long ranking, which pairs to short ranking. So even though this is effect strategy, you can now see parallels to this in, let's say, equity universe, a commodity universe, where you, you use the relative rank of these assets to to feed into your factor model. Okay, so that's that's something which I want you to pay attention on. So this is one now similar use case we are going to look at again, just this, just to repeat, so that you know this point gets reemphasized. I'm going to show another use case where it is for FX. The only difference is now I've taken a price forecast dimension, so there are many dimensions, right? I've taken a price forecast dimension, I have long one currency pair where you know price forecast is higher, short one currency pair where price forecast is lower, and then repeat the same strategy. So these are the things where we are looking at how these strategies are primarily used in alternative data space. You look at news, you look at volume of news, number one, you look at these dimensions, and then you start playing with the dimensions. Now, again, the point is just reiterate, use relative ranks, use buzz to create strategies now in this diamond, in this space, right? One of the things, especially oil, I think some of you are already asking, oil and gold. If you go by one signal, like, like sentiment, it becomes very dicey. There are many, many aspects, the many aspects of the sentiment that that is relevant for a commodity like gold or crude oil, or so, and so forth, so that all the more makes sense for us to not just look at this by feature by feature, but look at, look at this feature set, so to speak. So let me, again, my objective is to show you a demo, so that it's, it's very clear how this, how this plays. Let me see, where is that demo? Just give me a second until I load the demo, do So I'll just show you a demo of how one can approach this, for let's say, for a commodity asset like crude oil. I mean, as you know, given what we are seeing in the Iran war, everybody is very interested in knowing where the oil goes and how the oil supply is going to affect, so let's look at the first thing, which is, which is correlation with price. Let's look at that first, or maybe let's look at the sentiment versus price. Okay, so first, what I'll do is, I'll probably, I'll probably, um again, this is slightly older data. I cannot show you the live data, but the strategy, or the way you can do quant, is similar to this. What I'm showing, so this is a this is a 20 year old data set from 2000 to 2020 and what you're seeing is crude oil price, and and if you look at the orange line, that is the, that is a daily sentiment. The point I'm, I'm trying to talk about this is that the point I want you to take away is that any sentiment data that you take will be noisy by default, it's going to be noisy, whether you compute whatever sources of news you can to put in, you put into your engine, it's going to be nice. So, you first thing you need to understand is there, you need to cleanse it. Now, before cleansing it, you might, you might want to apply some kind of a quant technique to figure out whether there is signal at all in this sentiment data. Now, what is a million dollar question? It is, does news or sentiment does this affect prices or prices affect sentiment? So, this is the key question, right before even if pricer pricing is affecting the sentiment most of the time for a particular security, then this new sentiment is pretty much useless for you, because it's already captured.

Speaker 1  2:12:12  
Now, for that, there are many ways to do this kind of, you know, analysis in a, in a slightly statistical manner, so here what I'm showing you is grandeur causality. Granger causality is one of the common economic techniques used, where you have two time series, and then you want to figure out whether there are any, whether one of the time series and its lags can be used to predict another time series. So, at a very high level, some of you know already about this. Pardon me, but at a high level, I'm just explaining this. Is let's say there is, there is a x factor, there is a y factor. Are the lags of x factor and lags of y factor are can they explain something which is, which is as of which is itself for the for the current time can y t be explained as let's say the previous values of x t and y t so essentially granular causality is is a way to to find out whether this relationship is statistical enough or not so what I'm showing you is in this in this time period, I'm showing you grandeur causality for various p values, and based on these p values, you can figure out whether it makes sense for you to even consider this as a signal. So that's one second thing, is as I always have mentioned, you have to see the strength of the signal, at least visually, the algorithms will figure out, but if you have to visually see it, you will have to, you'll have to do some kind of cleansing. So, if you see some, if you do, if you, if I do some cleansing here, you see that there is some way in which this chart is, this sentiment chart is following the price. Okay, so this is one way. Again, this is visually, you of course have to test it statistically and make an and take a call on whether this signal is useful or not. So this is first part. Remember where we are coming from. We looked at sentiment as a single value. If you remember, we saw this as sentiment as positive, negative, neutral. That's one, that's one way we saw. Then we looked at sentiment, which is multi dimensional, and then we looked at, okay, if it's multi dimensional, it gives you a much richer picture. Now I did not say how it gives you much richer picture. Let me, let me show you how we can do that. Here, I'm going to do what I'm going to do is I'm going to take crude oil price, and I'm going to do a simple correlation plot between various factors. Here, okay? Just give me a second until I pick the right slice here, so. So, what you're seeing on my screen is a correlation between price and various sentiment factors. So, you see that some of them, they're obvious candidates, like volatility, supply versus demand forecast, violence - these are negatively correlated with the price, and some of them are positively correlated with the price, like trust sentiment, price forecast, and so on, and so forth. So, what we are now moving into is a way to understand this whole sentiment, not from just one value, positive, negative, neutral, or from three values, which is probability of positive sentiment, probability of negative sentiment, probability of neutral, and we are moving away from that. When I say moving away, it's a different way to look at these things, where you have multi-dimensional sentiment, and by the way, all of this, you can, you can either subscribe to data sets or you can crunch your, your own, let's say, specific subsets of these sentiments by yourself, and how we do that, we'll get to that very quickly, but I'm providing the motivation for one to look at these unstructured data, try to find out what these sentiments are saying, and then using it as a trading signal.

Speaker 1  2:16:15  
Now, there are companies like, I mean, we have, we partner with a company called Market psych and market psych provides this kind of data at various kinds of asset categories, so what I'm showing you is companies, they have companies, commodities, countries, cryptocurrencies, currency, so what, what this, what this fee does is at high level, this is what it does, you can get all the, you know, how many references are there for these companies in a specific time period, weekly, monthly, daily. Imagine there's a big engine that's actually scouring the net and actually giving you how many times this company is mentioned. That's a very, very important signal for many trading strategies, if the company is mentioned many times, and there's something happening in that, in that specific company. So that's one. Again, it goes to it goes to journalistic news, it goes to social media, and you might, and some portfolio managers or traders might, might only believe social media. They think that the social media signal is very useful for them to trade, so there are social media only sentiment values coming. Some of our portfolio managers might believe, "No, I don't want to trust social media, I want only news space, only journalistic news, maybe writers, Wall Street Journal, Economic Time, so economists, so all this traditional journalistic sources is what they trust, and that's where this left this this side of stats come in. Some portfolio managers might say, "No, I just want to see everything, news and social media, so you get a signal that's based on both news and social media. Now, this is exactly what I showed you here in this Excel, also, if you look at it, you have for the same asset class for the same frequency, you have sentiment signal coming from news and social media, news social media, so you have you have this bifurcation, and you can choose whatever you makes, whatever you think makes sense for for the trading data that you, for the trading strategy that you're looking at, so this is again what I'm showing you, is at a company level there, there are the indices or strategies that I mean, the metrics at a country level, also again, why this is, why this is important, if you're trading sovereign bonds, or if you're trading something in terms of specific country level, macro level trading strategies, countries are useful. Then there are currency level, of course. There are the same data that I showed you, is at a currency level also. You see that there are for each currency, there is a buzz, there is a heat map. So all of these, the point I'm trying to say is this data is what I'm showing you, by the way, is something which a lot of HFT firms and high frequency systematic trading firms are already consuming. I'm not talking about something theoretically here. We already sell this data to a lot of firms, but increasingly for this audience that we have today, the reason why I'm saying is this kind of data is also being slowly taken up by family officers, small trading outfits, because they see value in this data set, and if you have to do it by yourself, there is effort in it. I'll definitely say that there's definitely effort in it, but it is far easier to just take this as and test it out, and then probably build it. So, what I'm saying is, at high level, you test out what is there already in the market, and if it suffices, your needs just go, it will go with it. If it, of course, fits in the budgetary constraints. If not, maybe we can think of then developing our own sentiment. And how do we develop our own sentiment engine based on unstructured data that also will explore. Okay, so just to tie this into where, where we are, we have looked at sentiment, we have looked at sentiment overlay, we have looked at how we can use multi dimensional sentiment to figure out what are the what are the ways in which you can draw correlations? You can then use this correlations as a, as a way to build machine learning models. So, I'm assuming that you are to you, kind of figure out that look, once you have this multi-dimensional sentiment, the obvious thing is which one, which, which signal should I take?

Speaker 1  2:20:41  
Should I take time urgency? Should I take violence? Should I take sentiment? How do I figure out which to take? The natural answer to that is, of course, you, you can build something like a neural network model. So, this is what I'm showing on my screen, is something which was built many years ago, which is, you take, you take all these signals, and then you put in neural network. So, this was done internally many years ago. So, you take all those, all the signals, for example, and then run it through a machine learning model. In this case, it's a neural network, and once you run it through a neural network, you decide what is your trading strategy, what is your holding period, what is your, what is the volatility that you can, you are okay with, and you can actually feed this into a neural network model. So, what I'm saying is, either you can take each of these factors, and then build a trading strategy. When I say trading strategy, I showed you how probably one of the ways is to rank quarters the assets that you're interested in, check whether these signals are actually they're statistically significant in terms of the price movement, in terms of volatility movement, and then you combine these factors to create a model. Okay, so we took a slight detour, and the reason I took a detour is to actually show you a couple of things. What are happening in the industry? Where how are people using the end product? What is the end product here? End product is a sentiment. End product is this multi-dimension sentiment. End product is all this, which comes out of the box for an asset, for a currency. So all these that I've shown you, this is coming out of the box. You can take any of the companies around the world, you can get the volume of items written, sentiment, different kinds of sentiment is coming out of the box. You can then start embedding this in your trading strategies. Okay, whether it is a country level, whether it is a company level, currency level, commodity level, again, this is companies that are commodity level sentiment also. So all of this, and the reason I'm showing you is this is something which is coming out of the box now. Let's go back to where we started, which is if you look at where we started in terms of our present our flow, we wanted to figure out how do we actually take the sentiment data, or how do you take this text cleanse data and build our own center. Now, let's, let's pause for a few seconds. We want to explore a way in which you take this unstructured data, maybe you're scraping internet, maybe you're scraping a set of websites, maybe you have access to certain articles. The point is, we want to take these articles and crunch a sentiment number for whatever company you're interested in, specific companies you want to crunch that. Now, is it possible, and how easy it is, how difficult it is, and what are the steps that are involved in, and that's what we are going to see right now. And in order to that first thing that we must understand is how do we convert a bunch of clean text, so we have already figured out that there is a text, this text is usually the world, the text that we, we see either news filing, whatever it is, it's going to be messy. Then there are tools to convert this messy data into some kind of a structured data or some kind of a cleanse text. Now out of this cleanse text, How do I get a number? How do I get a sentiment number, and what, what does it entail in terms of building a model? So, first thing, what we need to understand is, how do we convert this into a text, into an into a set of numbers, not sentiment numbers, first numbers. Okay, so let me pull up this demo just to talk about how this can be done. So, firstly, we'll use something like a simple model to show how this any text can be converted to numbers, and this word is probably.

Speaker 1  2:24:59  
Now it's, it's well known to anybody in this space, but I think this, this, this, the word embedding, the word embedding is, is something which has become very common, as like a table. If you, if you look at any unstructured data, Excel, Oracle, MySQL, you typically come across the words like tables, schemas, so like that this word, the word embedding has become very, is very synonymous to that kind of lingo. So, what are we doing here in this short demo that I'm showing you? We have taken a text, which is this: a company went bankrupt after a series of financial missteps. Now, this I want to first convert into numbers. Now, what is converting to numbers mean? At a very high level, you are taking this, this text, and you're asking. Typically, this is done by a large language model, or some model which can compress this and give you a vector. Now, here it's a, it's a 1536 dimensional vector, you see this, so it has taken this sentence and it has converted into 1536 dimensional vector. Now, depending on this, is Open AI, depending upon what model you take, you can actually, for example, you can use, let's say, a sent sentence transfer. These are various models that are available today to take your text and take your text, and then convert into numbers, for example. Here, this is a 384 dimensional vector. This is using sentence transformer meaning, depending upon what model you want to use. This is a bird-based, bird-based model, each type of model will give you a different dimensional vector, 768 dimensional vector, but why are we converting? So, first thing we are, we need to understand what is this vector, why are we converting, and what is it relevant? How is it relevant to our final goal of crunching out sentiment. Now, the reason why we are converting this text to numbers is obvious. Machine learning models, or any learning model, any model with requires numbers, it can't work with text as number one. Number two, why are these different? So, some one model gives 768 One model, if you look at Open AI model, if I embed this text into an Open AI model, it's giving you 1536 dimension, so the dimensions of these vectors are changing. Is it something intrinsic to the model? Yes, it's intrinsic, but at high level, what is it doing? Why are these? How is it computing this number? So, if at a very 10,000 feet view level, imagine there are only two axes. Okay, you have a y axis and you have x axis, which means any, any text, for example, for example, can be represented as an xy coordinate. Now, what large language models do is, whenever you supply a text, it will find that right point in that. In this case, there are two dimensions. It's going to find us a right point in this two-dimensional vector, which is close to the close to the semantic similarity of this text. Whatever, what do I mean by semantic similarity? There are a lot of statements, a lot of, you know, things that are similar to this text. So, what, what large language model, what any model is doing is, is trying to find that vector which is very similar to these points. Now, how can we see it in, like, how can we clearly see that in example? So, let me take two examples here. One is the company went bankrupt after a series of financial missteps, including poor investment decisions, and so on and so forth, leading to unsustainable debt health. So, this is one sentence. There's another sentence, which says the company got delisted. Now, if you ask, if you ask human, like, are they, are they similar, you will say, yeah, of course. One, you know, the company went bankrupt. This, this, this sentence does not say it got delisted, but the fact that the company got delisted means it's the sentence, the sentences are similar in some form. So, if you convert this text into a vector, this text into a vector, and you do a simple cosine similarity between this, you will find that it is about point eight three.

Speaker 1  2:29:34  
So, that's what these mod, these models are embedding models, are doing, they're taking your text, in this case, a news item, or filings, a transcript, whatever you think, they're converting this into vectors, and these vectors are are similar in nature, in their semantic meaning, so that's one, depending upon whichever, whichever model you select, they. Would be different dimensions, so for example, this is Open AI. Open AI will, you can see, as I said, different, different models give you different embeddings. So, what we will do right now is to actually take the initial text that we have used. Okay, remember, we use this text in the very beginning, this text we can, you can actually put any of these texts, and you can then ask it to get some embedding, so this is entire text. I'm just taking a sample of this text, and I'm putting in this in this, in this, in this input, and I'm then asking an LLM to convert this entire text into an embedding vector, so you see it has converted this entire text into one embedding vector, so which means it is, it has clubbed all of this into one vector. Now the importance of this is that you will soon realize that there is some kind of a decision making that you have to take here, because Open AI can take any of your text and it can, it can chuck, it can create embeddings. So, let's see. So, here I've pasted this massive text, and it's, it's, it's doing an embedding, so and it's great, and it's created about five vectors. Why five vectors? Because I have chunked it into five pieces. Okay, so where are we in the journey? We have taken text, so just to go back to our drawing board, we have taken the messy text, we have cleansed the text, and then we have converted into embedding. Now our job is to find sentiment, so one of the ways to do is once you have these numbers for various sentiments, you can create label data, and you can run it through your own machine learning model, but I'm going to show you much easier way to do, especially since most, since a couple of you are interested in coming up with your own sentiment models, you don't want to probably buy it from others. You want to quickly put up, create your own sentiment model. I'm going to show you a very simple way to do that, given that we are in the world of LLMs. So, what you're seeing on my screen is firstly is a training data. What is the training data? You put in a set of news items here, and you, you stamp it with positive, some of these articles are positive, some of these articles are negative, some of these articles are neutral. So this is the training data for your sentiment analysis. Similarly, typically, if you, if you've done any machine learning, you know machine learning model, you have built any machine learning model, you know that typically there are your data, you split that data into training data, validation data, and test data. What? Why is what is the training data? Training data is used to train the model. Validation data is used to tune the hyper parameters. Maybe there are a couple of parameters you want to tune. You want, you use the validation data to tune the parameters of the hyper parameters. The model and test is a golden data set where you do all your modeling and then you evaluate finally on the test data set and then you report your numbers, so first, if you have to build your own, you know, sentiment analysis, first you need some label data at the end of it, now if we don't do any training, if you just don't do any, you just trust LLM, okay? You just trust your LLM, you try Open AI, GPT, or Opus, or any of this. And first, let me show you what happens if you, if you use out of the box, out of the box, you do, you don't do any training, you just fire this into an LLM, and you take whatever LLM says, whether it is a positive, negative, neutral.

Speaker 1  2:34:08  
This is very important to understand that even though LLMs are very powerful when it comes to financial use, financial services, financial kind of Arctic articles, they are still not there yet. So, what? How do I say that? Why am I saying they're not there yet? If you look at this, this is a classic confusion matrix, where on the side of this, you know, the confusion matrix is usually between actual and predicted. so what is this confusion matrix saying? We know that certain number of articles are negative, certain number of articles are neutral, certain number of articles are positive. That is by design we have created a data set which is neutral, negative, and positive examples. What you're seeing on the screen, on the left-hand side, is most of the articles are categorized as neutral. So, neutral is the predominant category, and when you look at positive and negative categories on the diagonal, only 29% of our positive, positive meaning, the actual is positive, predicted is positive. Similarly, 31% actual is negative, predicted is negative. So this is a cause of concern, right? Which means when you fire an article into LLM, and if you actually compare it with the actual, you know, hand-labeled data labels, you see that there is a discrepancy. It is not able to figure out positive. There are many things that it has missed, many things it has missed on the positive side, many things it has missed on the negative side. Now, what you can do is, I mean, how do we rectify this, or what do you do? So, you can, in today's world, you can just open up, let's say, GPT. MGPT gives that option where you can fine tune that specific aspect, that specific model of GPT, and how do you do that? You only tweak the final final layers of the neural network, you're not tweaking the entire GPT model, because that will be super expensive. The idea is that's why it's called fine tuning, what you're doing is you're tweaking these parameters and making sure that it will, it will match your training data. So, at the end of it, what you do is you tweak the parameters of the neural network, and you, you make sure that it matches your training data labels, and look at this. Once you do that, your actual negative and predicted negative has jumped from 31% to 74% Your actual positive has jumped from 29% to 59% So this is a massive increase by fine tuning. Okay, just by fine tuning you will be able to get this data, and it's not, it is not expensive. Number one, it's number two. All you have to do is, you have to first create a training sample. Second, this fine tuning, you'll have to spin up a code and do it, and come up with your own fine tuning model, and host that model. Now, I'll show you whether how this works. Okay, this is this is something which is doable by everyone. So we are going to take, we are going to test this news sample. Okay, this is I've picked up some article today, I think. Where is this? Yeah, this is a this is today's article. This is about Meta. It's come on, yeah, it's a couple of days, I think, march 11. So, I'm going to.. this is an article, which came a couple of days ago. I'm going to use the model, I mean, the fine-tuned model is maybe, maybe six months old, but if you look at it, it's able to give the right kind of a sentiment. Be there, again, this is again about Aramco. You can test any of these, and you will be surprised that by spending some bit of time in creating label data, in spinning up, in doing fine tuning, you're actually able to create your own sentiment engine. You don't have to trust anybody. And by the way, what I'm showing you is is exactly the same thing, which we disseminate on our platform. If you see this platform, actually, I just quickly show you. Maybe I'll go to news, so you see this platform here, where for every company there is a, there is a sentiment indicator given now.

Speaker 1  2:38:42  
This takes a lot of money to actually get this into picture, in terms of putting a training model and all of this, but today, to be very honest with you, LLMs are actually killing us, because they, by creating this model, they are able to do a quicker job and much easier job, so the point of this exercise is to show you that you can take text, you can create your own cleansing pipeline, you can then create your own sentiment model, so that's the purpose of this, as I said, as I hope you found this mini exploration useful, again, the point of this exercise is to not, is not to say that outside models, like whatever I've shown you, like this, these models, which are, which are out of the box, they're not, not, not to say that they're ineffective, it's, it's the same that if you have a constraint and budget today, you can create your own sentiment models with probably with effort in terms of putting the pipeline, but this all relies on the data, meaning if your input is input is not good in terms of news, your sentiment signal again would not be that good. So this is where these vendors, the vendors that we, I'm showing you, are actually good way, because they. Collect news items across tons and tons of articles. Now, you might say, "Okay, how many are this contact? Do it by myself. Does it really do I really have to get it? You know, do I really have to subscribe to this data? That's why that's that. That's a call that you have to take, but I'll show you some numbers, which probably will will help you take those now, take those decisions. So I'm going to show you some numbers in terms of how many news items does let's say our LSEC feed actually gives out, and that probably will give you a sense of numbers here again. These are little older numbers, but I think you will get a sense of how many items you're talking about in terms of news across various years. Okay, so what I'm showing you here, hopefully this pops up quickly, which is the number of news items for the last 20 years. Okay, so this is dated because I can't show you the new newest numbers, but at a high level, what we are looking at is close to 12 to 13 million news items. I mean, as I think 2025 we had about 14 million news items. So, you're looking at more than a million news items per day. And how are these news items? These are structured, they know, they have the headline body, they come up, they come with topic codes, they come with sent, they come with sentiment. So, this is comes out of the box now. Whether this is something which you want to test it out initially, and then decide whether you want to buy, whether you want to build your own engine, that's a call that you have to take. But I'm objectively talking about various capabilities that are currently out of the box, and why I'm talking about this. I'm not talking about super powerful hedge funds, which are who are using it. There are many independent family offices, hedge funds, and trading units, which are subscribing to this. And why is this powerful? So, one thing you must understand, why is this powerful? One is, as I said, it has the, it has the, it has topic codes associated with it, meaning for any news item you have various kinds of topic codes. So, for example, one of the before I get into the some questions, How do we create labels for the training data? So that's that's something, which of course is one of the most tedious parts of this any machine learning cycle, which is label data.

Speaker 1  2:42:29  
So, typically the answer to that is you go to some human experts who can, who can actually look at the article and stamp out a negative, positive, neutral sentiment, so that definitely the labeling part is always, always the most tedious part, and there is no escape, because if you want ground truth and if you want to improve LLM, you can't take LLM input to improve LLM, so that's like it doesn't make sense, but yeah, so having said that, How do we create that's definitely something, it's a tedious manual, but there are many companies which actually do this. You can outsource also the labeling process. The other thing is from a generic news. How do we understand which all stocks it impacts? Yes, as far as impact is concerned, I'll get to that in a second, but at high level, let me answer that before I, before I move on from, as I said, one news item can contain many, many, many, many companies. Mentioned, it's possible that one news item is only talking about one company. It is possible that that news item is talking about multiple companies. Now, one of the things that you need to understand is when you have to look at sentiment itself. Sometimes, when so many companies are mentioned in a news item, it is difficult to attribute individual level sentiment without taking into consideration the fact that there are other companies, so what I'm saying is just to be very clear, if a news item has only one company mentioned, the sentiment calculation is going to be different from a news item that contains 10 companies, and this is where there needs to be some adjustment in terms of how are how many other companies are being mentioned and at what at what intensity they're being mentioned, so these are all the nuances when you, when you come across when you start building sentiment nature, but coming back to this stuff that I spoke, Why is this important? Why is a feed that has all of these characteristics important? Let me talk about something called something on the on the topic course again. This I'll talk about it this in a session very soon, but at a high level, what we are looking at is all these news items. Are tagged with topic codes, and these are hierarchically, you know, hierarchically assembled. So, for example, if I go to markets, there are various topic codes: exchange trade products, derivative products, real Forex, FX, money markets, and you'll, you'll realize that these are nested, meaning you have first all markets and you're fixing, then you have FX markets, and in FX you have FX derivatives, cryptocurrencies, currency evaluation. These are all topics, and the fact that for a news item you can have all of these topics is very essential for you to filter the news, for you to try to understand which news items are important, and so on and so forth. So, whichever feed you are doing, whichever feed you are buying, or whichever feed you are yourself building, it's very important to attach topic codes, so that itself is a, is very crucial, especially when we talk about unstructured data. Any news item that you look at, you look at, you have to attach topic codes, and how do you do it? I mean, whether you want to do it by yourself or whether you're subscribing to the data, the very, the fact that you must understand how this topic codes are attached and what is the extent to which this topic codes are attached, so what I've shown you is this, this kind of nested hierarchy, which becomes very useful if you, if you want to, if you want to understand this space. Now I'll take a brief diversion into into this whole topic code business, because if you ask me about 80% of all the all the risk, all the people who are working in this area using NLP, using trade, using unstructured data in some form or the other, they are working on topic codes. Somebody is interested in carbon market, somebody is interested in spread trading, somebody is interested in trying to hedge all of these, they're all trying to figure out how do I get the news or the aspects that I am interested.

Speaker 1  2:47:08  
When I say I, the person is interested in, and in that sense, there usually is a mention of topic codes, and there's some kind of a topic code modeling that happens. And why is this important? Let me, if I have that demo, I'll quickly show that, so that you'll see the motivation for this. So, I'll quickly show you why topic codes are needed for news items, because if you have to even do some kind of analysis and attach sentiment and try to follow this using trading strategies. How is it useful? So, let's say you take a single day of in a specific, let's say, country. If you have topic codes, you will be able to first get a quick understanding of what topic codes are being are ink are relevant to that country or that asset class or that specific sector immediately. For example, here you see that there are 29 news items and commodity markets, 22 on energy news, 12 on crude oil. So, who is attaching these topic codes? This is attached programmatically by an engine for all of these news, so imagine you have this, you can easily see. Okay, these are the topic codes. Great, let me dive into one of these topic codes, so that level of familiarity, that level of ease will come out once you have topic goals. Okay, the other thing, which, of course, this is something which is coming from our clients, and many clients who actually take their news items, they look at the topic codes, and then they, they try to understand which topic codes are talking about which news items. So, what you're seeing on my screen are various topic code clusters. So, this is a FX cluster, this is a crude oil cluster, this is economic news cluster is the RBI cluster refined product. So I'm showing you a few examples here, but the idea you get the idea. If you have topics associated with news items, you can then take any time window, and then you can figure out, okay, what are the news items in that topic cluster, and then you can see, okay, what are the companies mentioned in the topic cluster, and then you can do all the analysis. So, here I'll kindly give me a few minutes. I want to jump into one section here, and then topic talk about topic modeling again. Why this is important. This might be a little theoretical, but when we do a session on, you know, Azure language processing, sentiment analysis. I think this, we have it needs to, this needs to be mentioned, because when I look at all the people who are in this area, 60 to 70% of this teams around the companies are working on this, they want to take some news, they want to. Find out whether certain topic of their interest is mentioned in their news articles or not. It could be trade, as I said, be hedging, it could be risk management, it could be alpha, whatever it is. So, let me give you some basic history here again. This is, again, this is a diversion we are taking just to understand how this space has evolved, and I'm sure you'll understand why this is useful, so a big, a bit of diversion, diversion. How, if you were to, if I, if you were given, if you are given a blank slate, and you were asked, okay, this are the news items, crunch a topic code for, I mean, attach a topic code for each of them. How will you do it? So this was a question, which was, which was, you know, which was active research area for many, many decades. So, at a high level, this is what you, you need to at least have a knowledge about, which is this whole field of topic analysis, topic modeling has gone through waves. The first wave is around 1988 so as you can see, this is more than 25 years ago, so that time this topic modeling was purely a math problem, where it was attacked from a matrix algebra perspective, meaning if you have done some kind of a factorization, it was based, it was based on a factorizing the entire documents as a document matrix, document term matrix.

Speaker 1  2:51:24  
The second wave happened in 2000 where there is some bit of a statistical model that was formulated, and all the parameters of the statistical model was evaluated to find the topics, and the third significant development happened in 2003 when there were three researchers who actually came up with a technique which drastically changed the way how you attach topic codes, and this did not take off until 2010 Why? Because it's not because of technology, but it's just because the algorithms were not sufficiently sophisticated, but after 2010 this, the top, the whole area has become very amenable to, let's say, to scale this operation. Now, why am I mentioning, for those who are math enthusiasts in the, in the, in the audience, or in the session, you might read up, and you might find this whole area fascinating. By the way, there are many people who have just done PhDs in just LDA. Many, many people, but from our perspective, one thing that I want you to take away is that these are all things that have been done for decades, and we today, when we see a news item with topic codes, it is a result of all of these efforts, and for those who are mathematically inclined, this is probably a section that would be useful for to go and understand how this works. So, as I said, LSA was LSA happened first, and then there was PLSA. This whole way of looking at things is Bayesian analysis, and again, again, for those who are familiar with Bayesian analysis, they will see that this is a play diagram where you can, you can look at documents, you can look at, you can fit a LSA PLSA model. I don't want to, you know, I don't want to overwhelm with all these details, because I'm not sure how many of you would be interested in this, but I've mentioned it as details, because these are all the stepping stones to actually what we, we today see it as an LDA, or some form of advanced LDA that is used for for topic modeling. Now, this is all mathematical, this is all theoretical, but we, as practitioners, we don't have to get into the details of all of this if you're not interested. The reason why I mentioned is this is useful if you want to actually do some programmatic understanding. So, what do I mean by that? Let me pull, let me pull the Jupiter notebook here, so here I have in the, in the, in the course sheet, I have mentioned a couple of Jupyter notebooks where you can have also supplied some bit of sample data, you can use normal, you know, spacey pipeline to take the sample data to create a documentary matrix, and use something like a simple scikit learn to do how to figure out how LSA is done. Similarly, you can, you can use slightly sophisticated method, which is an LDA. Also, I've also sent you an LDA worksheet, so you can use a scikit learn, you can use a lot of packages and a lot of functionality in scikit learn to stamp out a topic code, so let me probably quickly work talk about what that means, maybe. And this is something which you can play around with, and you'll get an idea of how the stop big code has stamped. So, here we are, we are loading the news data, we are creating a document term matrix, we are looking at scikit learn to decompose and fit an LDA model. By the way, all of this are within, I mean, they're all built in scikit learn, you can use as ease, and then you can probably read the documentation to figure out what it does, and it here it shows you how, if you have news items, how you can separate into various topics.

Speaker 1  2:55:33  
What I'm trying to say is what we saw on slides, a purely mathematical concept, which is, which has lot of math in it, has today been democratized in such a way that you can actually use these out of the box, so that's that's why this is one thing which I found find it very fascinating, whichever area you are trying to do, the fact that you will be able to attach topic codes to a news item or to any unstructured data becomes very powerful, so that's something which I want you to take away, and that's why I spend some time now. In the remaining time, please give me a few more minutes. I want to show you a couple of demos, which will be very interesting. Just give me a second. Let me pull up the demo. So, what I'm going to show you now is how our LM is being used to create, to create signals, so to speak. Okay, now LMS have become so powerful nowadays that you know you can probably feed a lot of data, and then you can, you can get a sense of signal, signal here, signal in terms of what they, what if you give a lot of data, then you can ask LLM, what is outlook of a certain stock, what is outlook for certain commodity, so what are we going to, what we're going to do here is, I'm going to quickly walk you through what data sets we can probably use in trying to ask an LLM about let's say the directionality about let's say buy hold or sell kind of a decisions so here we are taking let's say a company called Royal Dutch Shell and we have the sentiment data, what you're seeing on my screen is all the sentiment, what are the what are the news items, whether it is high or new, high, or you know what kind of sentiment it has. We're taking this data, we are taking broker research report. What are broker research reports for this company? What are all the company sell side companies they have written? What is Barclays written? What is JP Morgan written? What is MSCI written? So all of this is unstructured data. Okay, then we looked at trans, we can also look at earnings calls, presentations, what earnings they have done, what presentations they have given, transcripts. I think I already spoke about this, which is these are all, you know, whenever they conduct events, we transcribe those events, and this itself can go in as an input to an LLM for a particular company. Then, of course, there are filings, you know, all these filings that the company does. It could be, it could be ESG disclosure filings, a profit and loss filings. These are all filings, regulatory filings. All of this is unstructured data, correct? Because ultimately today the LLMs are capable of taking all of this data and understanding this data and trying to, you know, spit out either a summary or either some recommendation, or so on and so forth. So I'm showing you various types of unstructured data that you can use to call out some signals for a particular stock, I'm mentioning stock, but it can be any asset. Now this is another kind of data, which talks about significant developments. Then this is another unstructured data, which talks about various aspects that happen to shell, of course. You can also put in structured data, like fundamentals, like pricing, and so on, and so this also can go into an LM model. Now, what I am going to talk about is if we, if we, if we take all of this data, and let's say, if you want to run backward looking and forward looking, what do I mean by backward looking? I stand today, and I feed in all of this data, and I asked LLM, give me a comprehensive report of what happened in the last three months, and you tell me what's what do you think is going to happen in the next few months, and you tell me the reasoning for that. Okay, so let's see what it does here. So we are essentially taking all the feeds, so imagine this is not just one news article, two news articles. This is, we are taking filings, you're taking if. Show you the feed.

Speaker 1  3:00:00  
Here we are taking news, you're taking transcripts, filings, broker research reports, fundamentals, technical analysis. You can.. this is probably a template for, for, for probably for those of you who want to experiment and take signals based on the data that you have. So, what has it created? This it has created a report. report for this company, and it has, it has given some business description, and it is giving a hold recommendation. Why is it giving a hold recommendation? It is, it is basically saying positive trends, negative trends, conclusion. It is, and at a fee, at each feed level, it is giving specific summaries based on which it is giving that specific signal. Now, you might be skeptical. Is it good? Like, I mean, I'm feeding a lot of data. Of course, it is not hallucinate. I mean, none of this is web data. It is all structured data. It is all, you know, real commercial data, in terms of the source, none of this is fabricated, so you might say, is this useful at all? Or so one way to answer that question yourself is not to trust me, but trust your own back testing. So one of the.. I'll just show you one back testing of what we have done. We have taken for a set of companies, and when we said we asked LM to evaluate, and if you look at this, this strategy, where it has said hold the hit rate, wherever it has said hold the hit rate has been 72% Now this is, you don't have to believe me, you can take your own set of stocks, your own set of companies, and then this can be a template for you to experiment. How this, how this whole thing works. Now, what I have shown you right now is a way to start leveraging LLMs to do a lot of evaluations, lot of strategy building, and all of this. Again, it comes with a pinch of salt, because you also have to decide that the data that goes into LLM is not fabricated, it's not some web random web search, it's actually looking at right amount of data. So, just give me one more minute, I want to show you something, which, which might be, which might be interesting. So, I want to show you some of the capabilities, which we have not released yet, meaning it's only available for certain clients of us, but this will kind of tell you how or what kind of data that that probably can be used in LLM. Once you feed LLM with the right kind of structured data, then you can, you can actually, you can start actually doing very powerful stuff. For example, I'll just show you, so here I'm asking, plot US CPI inflation numbers and unemployment rate for the last years on a dual access chart. So, if you and remember that I'm not asking, I've disabled the web search here. It's actually hitting LSEC MCP tools again. This is not available right now for everybody. We will be releasing soon, but I'm just showing you preview of how things can be used by LLM. How think, how you, when you put in accurate data, when it's accurate data, really trusted data, you start seeing the power of actually LLMs in charting, you looking at the data and creating something which is really useful. So, here I was asked US CPI inflation and unemployment rate for the last years, so it has now created the data. All of this is, by the way, is actual data. Is none, none of them is fabricated data in terms of real, instead of the data going into this. So it has created a dual chart, CPA, inflation, unemployment numbers. It has given some sort of, some kind of summary of this. And then you can, you can then go one step ahead and say, okay, the various kinds of data sets that you can, you can, you can, you can use here, but from, from the perspective of our, let's say, alternative data set, we can even ask questions, like, you know, on the basis of news, so let me show one example of news Give me a second, let me don't want to waste time here writing the prompts.

Speaker 1  3:04:31  
I just created a prompt, which says here we are asking news on crude oil, so what we are saying is go get news on crude oil and oil market, and then why don't you, you know, summarize this news items and give me a report, as you know, crude, crude is crude oil, and anything related to oil is topic, very topical now, given the Iran war. So, what, what we have done here, what I'm showing you here is this is accessing l6 Trust LSEC MCP server. What is MCP server? It's essentially a way to plug in an API into LLM, and it's, it's, it's requesting the API, it's getting all the new site items, and if you just wait for a few seconds, it's going to pull all of these new sites, so so here your trust, your it's not there's no web element here, it's not randomly going and searching all the web items, it's actually going and trying to figure out news items from from the same source that I showed you a few minutes ago, the route is news. I just hope the connection is still on, so as you can see, it has got some news here. It's a dominant story is Iran war, as expected. So these are all the news it has, it has managed to get in march 13, for all the march 12, march 11 so these are all the news, it has managed to get 15 stories, and now you can, you can then say, okay, why don't you get the Brent crude closing prices for the last Fridays again, these are all these are not fabricated data, it's coming from actually our internal data set, so it's getting all the, it's getting all the Brent prices for the last couple of days, so these are all real settlement prices, and now you can say, okay, why don't you marry, why don't you marry this both again? There is no end to what you can do in terms of once you have LLMs configured to these data sets, there are so many things you can do here. You're saying, okay, you have news together, you have price together, why don't you piece both together and give me some kind of a synthesized news and price, so this is what we did, you know, using various tools in today's world, you know, you can actually marry the news items, marry the price items, and then you can ask LLMs to actually create some kind of an indicator on a daily basis, so it says sentiment bullish overall signal today hold with bullish lean now. Whether you want to believe in this is something which has something which you have to take a call on, but at least the data that's going behind the synthesis is not fabricated. It's coming from trusted data sources, and this is what becomes very powerful when once you start mixing LLMs with the data. So just to recap, I know I'm sorry, I've taken more time than needed, but just allow me to recap the session, what we have started off with, and what we have learned over the span of three hours. We started off with what all data is, we have looked at various kinds of all data sets, and then we looked at what perm ID is, because ultimately you need some identifier to tie all of this together. We looked at knowledge graph, which helps you look at all the entities together in one form. Then we touched upon the important aspect of tagging, because whether you want any unstructured data, you need to tag, be it be it entities, be it relationships, we need to tag it. Then we looked at, we took two, two parts. One was, if you have sentiment, if you have sentiment, how was how is sentiment being used into various trading strategies? People are using it to first do an overlay of sentiment on on prices, you can do sophisticated, like a grander causality type of analysis to find out whether sentiment analysis is useful at all for the asset that you're looking at. You can look at multi-dimensional sentiment, and then you can probably do, you know, neural network kind of a modeling, you can do the effect strategy that I showed you, where you actually take a relative values and not absolute values.

Speaker 1  3:09:27  
Then we went, we came back to this track, and then we looked at how you can take text, how you can clean the text, and then how you can probably come up with sentiment. Here we looked at how you can use fine tuning to actually come up with your own sentiment model. Then we looked at topic codes, and then we also looked at how LLMs are being used today to actually take a lot of this unstructured data and come out with signals. So that's a lot of things that we have covered. My hope is that these bite-sized sessions. Some form or the other, some sessions, some part of this three hour section session was interesting, and deliberately I made it breath heavy, so that there could be some combination of sessions that you would, you would have loved, or you would have liked. So, as always, if you have any questions, please write to us, EPAT team, and then we'll get back to you, and I hope this entire three hour session was somehow useful to understanding this space, as I said, as it did. The space is only going to explode, given the amount of unstructured data, given the amount of alpha that firms are seeking from alternative data sources. Thank you so much for giving this opportunity. I hope this session was interesting. Have a nice day.

Unknown Speaker  3:10:42  
Bye.

