Speaker 1  0:08  
Uh, hi folks. Hope everyone is doing good. So before I begin, I want to make sure that you can hear my voice as well as see my screen.

Unknown Speaker  0:27  
Okay, so what you should see on your screen is a Jupiter notebook, and you should be able to hear me.

Speaker 1  0:36  
Okay, great. Thank you, folks. Thank you Sonia Madhusudan Raghav, thank you. Okay, I'm going to close the Q and A box, and I'm going to jump into the lecture. So this is the second lecture that I'm taking with your batch, and the first one was our first introduction to back testing using Python. Now, since then, you guys must have had a bunch of other lectures on different topics, and now we are moving on to slightly sterner stuff. So this topic is quite popular and a standard staple in universities that offer masters in, I would say, Applied Finance, Financial Engineering, even a lot of masters in econ economics, econometrics, those programs have a have a have a course on time series modeling. And this lecture today and the next is our attempt at trying to compress what is taught over, like a semester, a over like six hours right now, obviously, since we are reducing it drastically, our focus is very much on applying the principles and tools that we have in the world of time series modeling, specifically to financial market data. Right? That's the approach we take, and that's essentially how we will go about this class also. So in terms of how we cover it, I first want to set a little bit of context in terms of why we even need to learn it right. So we'll talk about how simple trading rules that we in fact, even saw together, often underperform right in different types of markets, and what we can do about so how can we expand our repertoire of tools that we use to find those elusive Alpha generating strategies? So that creates the motivation. And then we go on to look at the auto regressive models, which is one type of time series models. So we arbitrarily choose AR, one that is auto regressive model with order one, and we'll see how that does as a strategy that creates enough of a context for us to then build upon it and go on to creating ARIMA models, which is like a family of models, and AR is like one sub part of what is called Arima, right? Now, Arima might sound like a name in reality. It's an acronym, right? It's a R, I m, a, we'll when we get there, I'll talk about what it expands to and what those words mean and stuff. And then we'll talk about how you choose the order of an ARIMA model, whatever that means. Don't worry if those names and words sound unfamiliar, because they are right. It's a completely new topic for many of us, and therefore the jargon will seem completely new to us, right? It sounds strange, and these things will start unfolding as this lecture progresses and at the final, at the very end, we will put it all together to build a rolling Arima strategy. We look at how it performs, and we'll understand what its limitations are, right? So that is the objective of today's lecture. Now obviously, since we are moving fast and furious with regard to the topic, we are going to hand wave away all the mathematical underpinnings that have created these models. Right? Our focus is on so we are going to defer to the mathematicians and the statisticians who we trust have done a jolly good job of making sure that the foundations are strong and solid. And we will just go about utilizing the fact that these models exist and they are fairly well understood. And so we will just learn how to use them in our context, in our world of financial markets right now, as is my want, what I will do is I will give you guys two breaks. So since we started around four, your first break should be at about 555, 10. I expect that could be the time in terms of our break. The second break will happen another after one. We finish our first break, which is about eight or nine minutes, we will do another 60 to 65 minutes of a session, and then I expect you guys to take another short break. The idea being that you can just go recharge yourself, right? These topics are not the easiest to deal with, and it's, it's just nice to, you know, take a little walk, get yourself a glass of water, or, you know, tea, coffee, whatever your choices, right? So, yep, that's how we are going to go about these things. Now, throughout this lecture, we are going to juggle programming that is, programs that you see the data part as well as strategy design, right? Our focus is more on the strategy and concept part of things. We are not going to dwell too much on the program itself, okay, so even in terms of what I expect of you with regard to the exam or with regard to your first brush with this topic. I am not too fussed about you guys understanding the program from start to end, but what I do think your time is best spent in doing is to get a grip on the key ideas that drive this topic. Okay, so that is how I am also going to spend my time while I cover this topic with you. All right. So with that little preamble, let's get going. Okay. So the first thing I want to talk first thing that we do, like we do with any when you're dealing with Python, is you import a bunch of libraries. Most of these libraries you would have seen before. So NumPy, pandas. These are the usual partners in crime that we have. Why finance all the stuff. This is a new library. So there's a library, very popular library, called stats, models. It's a it's one of the work horses in the world of confidence, because it's got, like, virtually everything that you can imagine when it comes to using statistical models, right? So within stats models, there is a sub library called TSA that is time series analysis. And from there we import a specific sub routine called seasonal decompose. And then you have C board, which is like a wrapper onto matplotlib to make our plots a little prettier than matplotlib would give us. So the next set of libraries that we're importing are all different routines within stats models. Okay, I only want to draw your attention to the fact that there is a specific routine called Arima itself, right? So from stat models, dot, TSN or Arima or model, we import Arima. So this is all like standard stuff. Now let's start with this. So how many of you have tried moving average crossovers in your personal or work related portfolios? So I'm going to look at the questions panel. So how many people have tried, yeah, moving average, and how many of you have found it to be profitable, consistently profitable. So again, I'm looking at the question Q, a box. I'm just curious to see okay, people have found them to be profitable. So our heat, have you found them to be consistently profitable? Or have you gone through phases where they haven't? They have lost you money?

Speaker 1  8:35  
Okay, so some people are saying sometimes it loses you money. Yes, profitable tried MA and profitable. Tried it not consistently, 60% accuracy. Okay, so clearly, it's a mixed bag, right? It can be good. They are a nice way. I agree with Carlos. So Carlos says Ma's are a very nice way to start, and they seem to be consistently profitable. And I use them at weeks. I agree Ma's, they look simple and they are simple. And the best part is that they can often make you decent money, right? You need to be a bit careful with regard to testing and stuff, but I'm all for using simple strategies, as long as they are getting the job done for you, right. However, the only catch with strategies such as Ma's, whenever you go through some crazy periods and markets periodically, go through these crazy periods is when these strategies start to fail, right? So some of you, I don't know people, have invested, say five years back and six years back. Maybe some of you have started your journeys later, but if you went through the covid period, for instance, right? Those are the times of those are the kind of periods where those strategies start to lose money for you, right? So these things happen, and where something like a statistical model can help is that, since the. The way these models are constructed is slightly more rigorous. They tend to be a little more robust when it comes to creating strategies, right? So that. So the idea is that we are going to create a new we are going to take a slightly different approach to creating strategies, and we'll see how they do, right? So the idea is we build a basic forecasting model that adjusts as market conditions change, rather than relying on fixed routes. So when we talk about simple trading rules, we have tried stuff like this, right? Buy, when the price crosses a 20 day moving average, sell, when some RSI goes above or something, or buy, when it goes below or something go along after certain updates. Right? So these rules are pretty good most of the time, but when the market condition shift, what we call regime shifts, suddenly these strategies stop working, right? So let's try this for fun. Okay, so let's take the spy, which is the s, p5, 100 ETF, trust, it's a very it is the most uh, widely traded ETF in the world, extremely liquid, very, very easy to get in get out, right? So let's download the data for uh spy. So when you do that, you end up with about 1800 rows of data starting from Jan 2019 up to the end of 2025 so that's about seven years of data that we have since wi finance worked for me. Now I'm not going to import the data file, okay? I'm going to work with this so we calculate returns. This is, again, very standard stuff. You guys would have seen it before. So let's run the next cell so you know that you've downloaded about 1800 days and seven columns. So this includes the pre covid period. Because we started in 2019 you have the pandemic. You have the post pandemic period. So the post pandemic includes lots of different things, right? High inflation rate, great hikes, great reductions. Then in the recent past, I would say, like in the last two, three years, you've also had wars that came up, Ukraine, Russia. Then you had stuff happening in the Middle East. Then you had the tariff wars, where the US increased tariffs on certain countries, reduce it on other countries and stuff, right? Lots of things have happened, so let's first see how do the prices and returns look over this period, right? So from 2019 to 2026 if you look at the prices, they were going steadily up. Then during the covid they crashed, then they started going up again. It went through a phase where it started going down. This is very typical of the way markets operate, right? You will have it trends upwards, but you will have many phases where the prices start crashing, such as here, and you can see this go on throughout the period. It will go overall, it's gone up. So clearly it's it was costing about two $20 or so at the beginning of 2019 and at the end of 2025 it is nearly $700 right now, if you look at returns instead of prices, it tells us a slightly different story, right? So firstly, returns are always daily. Returns are always hovering around 0% however, there are periods when the returns are jumping up and down a lot, such as here, right? And there are periods where it's quite benign. So, you know, phases such as this, the returns seem to be quite not jumping around all that much. Again, here in 2022 you can see it jumps around a lot. Then there are phases where it's not jumping around so much. And so, right? So what we see is that the standard assumption when we work with financial models right, whether it's the capital asset pricing model or option pricing models or any factor models, is that returns, returns are kind of normally distributed, and one would imagine that the wall that you see on any given day is independent of the wall on, say, the next day or the previous day or some such but the reality is that when you have a high wall period, high wall period sort of persists for a while, then you have these low wall periods, which also persist for a While. So there is, at least visually, it appears like there is some dependencies with regard to the kind of wall or volatility that we observe in the markets, right? So what this essentially tells us is that markets aren't purely random, right? And so static rules can fail to adapt, sometimes to. To changing conditions. So what we'll do is we'll just create a simple moving average strategy. So you have a short window of 10, a long window of 30. I picked it up arbitrarily, no reason. You can change those numbers also, right? And then you can calculate what happens. So you will go long. If the short moving average is greater than the long moving average, else you're going to short, right? So you create a simple condition here. And in order to compute the strategy returns, you shift the signal by one place, which we have done again in the past. I'm not going to repeat why multiplied by returns, right? So if you were to do this and compare with what is happening with regard to, say, a buy and hold in that same period, what you find is that the moving average strategy is only getting you like 1% through those seven years, whereas a buy and hold would have tripled given you 200% returns, right? That is your investment would have tripled in value. He would have started at about 200 odd dollars, and you end up with nearly $700 right? So clearly, what you see is that the strategy has underperformed buy and hold, which is pretty bad, right? Because obviously, if you're taking the trouble to create a strategy, you would expect it to expect it to do better than a passive investment. But that's not really the case. It has underperformed quite a bit, right? So what this essentially tells us is that sometimes these simple kind of rules, they are not very good when it comes to adapting to all these different phases that the market goes through, right? So here clearly we know that the market regime has changed, right? So something that would have worked in, say, 2019 is going to spectacularly collapse in 2020 when that covid situation happened, right? Even if you were to look at like the equity curve this, this gives you an idea of the equity curve. It's pretty smooth in certain phases, but then it it goes through some really bad times and it underperforms right. Again. Notice how when it collapsed here, the wall has really increased, right? So even here, for instance, when it is having a collapse, you can see that the it's going through a phase where the volatility is very high, right? So what this is telling us is that when volatility tends to be high, markets are very choppy, and they, in fact, tend to be trending downwards. That's what this is telling us. All right, okay, so now I'm going to take a look at some questions. Okay, so, Sonia asked, Will you cover LSTM? No, that is outside the scope of this lecture. I spelled out what is getting covered in this lecture. LSTM, and those kind of topics are part of the machine learning modules. So you should check out what we cover in the machine learning modules. Okay?

Speaker 1  18:24  
Zubin asked, How is a regime shift defined and identified? So again, it's slightly outside the scope of what we are going to cover today. I'm going to give you a brief explanation and leave it at that for now, right? So a regime shift is when there is something that fundamentally changes the operations of the market. So for instance, when the covid crisis happened, suddenly, it is affecting all businesses to varying degrees, but it's it had a very deep impact on the way it affects businesses across the board. So it impacts, therefore it impacts the index that is created by those businesses, which is virtually every every business, right? So this shift means that suddenly there is a change, say, in the significant change in the levels of the market and even what happens at those newly acquired or newly reached levels. So that's what we mean by a shift in the regime. Typically, regime shifts happen when there is political change. It happens when there is war. It happens in cases like pandemics, right? Those are usually the telltale signs that there's been a shift in regimes. Use Carlos says returns as heterosclastic. Yes, they are. I won't get into those details for now. I can see that you are kind of familiar with this topic. And the objective is that by the end of these two sessions, I. We'll all get somewhat familiar with these topics. Is it okay? Okay? Ma, crossovers work only in trending markets, not necessarily. They work also in mean reverting markets, shares. So other ask, is it necessary that high volume? So we are not talking about volume of trades here we are only looking at wall and volatility. That is when I say wall, I'm not referring to volume, I'm referring to volatility. Okay. Yuan says we need to check drawdown and standards and decide if the moving average cross is better than buy one. Yes, absolutely Yuan. So right now we are just warming up. Okay? There are a lot of things we need to do in order to evaluate how a strategy is performing. The metrics that eventually determine what we like or don't like about a strategy are many. Okay, we shall ask, what's the strategy used by you? The MA Moving Average crossover? Yes, it is. It is a moving it's a variant of the Moving Average crossover. Yes. So does Arima depend on autocorrelation with lag returns? Yes, it does. I'll get to all those details. Okay. So

Speaker 1  21:24  
so high wall can also lead to upward movement. Yes, it's possible. Yes it is possible. We unpack a lot of these things. All right. We are just starting guys. We are just warming up. Okay, okay. So, so far, what we've seen is that, like a simple strategy, like, say, a moving average would be, does not would find it a bit hard to adapt to changing markets. When, when I say changing, I mean drastic changes in the markets. And I'm talking about phases right where, like I mentioned, there's a shift in regime, which brings us to the first of our time series models, and it's called an auto regressive model right now, the auto regressive models are popularly referred to as AR, okay? Auto regressive is called AR, and the idea behind this is as follows. So one of the assumptions that many traders start with is that if something went up yesterday, it will probably go up today, right? It's a trending sort of approach, right? Something went up, it's going to continue to go up. If it went down, it's probably going to continue going down. Now, if you want to be a little more systematic about how you go on to examine or analyze that statement, it is how much of today's returns can be explained using, say, yesterday's returns or the day before, or the day before, at least, let's begin with just yesterday's returns, and how reliable is that relationship? So if I say yesterday's returns are a very good predictor of today's returns, I need to know how strong is that relationship, right?

Speaker 1  23:29  
So now the difference in the first approach, which is where you say, if it went up today, it will probably go up if it went up yesterday, it will probably go up to days. It is relying more on intuition, right? Your intuition is that if something went up, it will continue to go up. The other is a little more systematic. So you want to build a model where you want to kind of test out your hunch, right? You want to test it. You want to estimate what how strong that relationship is, and monitor it over time. So this essentially creates a motivation in order for us to build our first auto regressive model. Okay, so before I go ahead, I am going to show something on a spreadsheet.

Unknown Speaker  24:31  
Okay, I

Speaker 1  24:43  
all right? So everybody would have heard of regression, right? So what is regression? I'm going to look at the Q and A box while people type what regression is. I'm. So what is regression?

Speaker 1  25:10  
Yes, any anything, wherever you word the term regression. What is linear regression? So, money content says predicting a dependent variable using independent Yes, that's not a bad definition. Yes, that's kind of true.

Speaker 1  25:28  
Predicting value of x on the basis of y. It's actually the reverse Himanshu projection of previous data into the future, not quite but yeah, we're getting a line that minimizes errors of observation. Yes, yes. So I think quite a few of you are somewhat getting it. So the idea of regression is that, let's say you're trying to predict some variable y, you want to predict some variable y, and you hypothesize that y is influenced by by say, x1, x2 and x3 right? So if y is influenced by f1, x1 x2 x3 you can say y is a function of x1, x2 and x3 right? But what makes regression? You know more, more specifically, in regression, you are saying that this function f is linear. That is to say the way y is linked to x1, x2 x3 is you won't have terms like terms where y depends on the square squared value of x1 or the cubed value of x2 or the square root of x, right? That's the underlying assumption, right? Now left field example for a regression would be, what, how, if you're trying to predict an individual's annual income, right? So the annual income then becomes y, right? So y then becomes equal to annual income. So what does annual income depend on? So you can say x1, would be number of years of work experience.

Speaker 1  27:42  
You can say x2 will be country of residence, right? So if you work in countries where the GDP, or the GDP per capita, is high, the salary is likely to be higher. X3 could be, say, number of years of formal education. So we are just, in this case, taking these three I'm sure there are many determined determinants of what the annual income is. So we will say that, okay, why is say 1.5 times x1 plus plus, say, and let's say we decide to group our countries into different categories. So you have say, high income countries, middle income countries and low income countries. And you say that this counts, this. This has a value of three, this has a value of two, this has a value of one. So what you will say is this depends on maybe 2.4 star income level, okay, so that level could be either one or two or three. Actually, x2 becomes one or two or three, sorry, x2 right? And x3 can be, say, I don't know, 4.1 star x3 right? So this is one way to look at it. Now, what time series would say is that? So this becomes a example of multiple linear regression. Why multiple because you have multiple variables on the RHS. Now, what does auto regression say? Auto regression says, Forget all these x1 x2 x3 it says that, why? Y is influenced not by x, 1x 2x 3y. Is influenced by Y t minus one. Actually the here we'll have to call it, wait a second. Why underscore t? So why under? T is why subscript T, I'm using the notation underscore. So why underscore t is influenced by y underscore t. So that is to say, salary in your annual salary in year T is influenced by annual salary in the previous year, right? In year, t minus one, right? Which means you are now going to say, actually, here I forgot to add one thing. It is going to be all this plus an error term, because obviously this is not going to be a perfect calculation. There will be some error also. So this is how it looks here. What you're saying is that yt is equal to, I also forgot to add a coefficient at the start. So let's call that coefficient beta, underscore, zero. Okay, which is to say for a person with zero years of work x zero years of formal education, and say coming from a poor country, right? Obviously, that doesn't mean they are going to make no money, right? So there are a lot of people who are, say uneducated, and who are just, say 16 years old or 17 years old, and they will live in a poor country, but they do make some money, so that beta underscore zero takes care of that, right. Similarly, here you will have y underscore t is equal to say beta underscore zero plus will say beta underscore one, which is another variable multiplied by y underscore t minus one that is to say today's salary depends on or rather, this year's salary depends on the previous year salary. This simply put is here one that is to say we are again running regression, but the regression we run a regression on the past value of the same variable. That is the past value of the salary. That is what we are doing in the case of auto, auto regressive behavior, right? AR one. So since I told you what AR one is AR two is where I'm saying we run a regression on the past two values of the same variable, meaning to say, we will say, in a case like this, that annual salary in year T is influence or is dependent on,

Speaker 1  32:54  
excuse me, annual salary in years t minus one and t minus two, right? So then this equation, which I wrote here, will now have one additional variable, beta underscore two multiplied by the salary from two years back. Right? That is what is happening when you talk about auto regressive stuff right now. Let's go back to our notebook. So this is to build a little bit of intuition on what auto regressive models do right now. Here up to now, I was talking about salaries. In our world, we are not concerned with salaries. We are concerned with the stock price, right? The stock price or the price of an asset, right? So what we will do is we will go back to our sheet. Let's see, yes, and we'll see what we are doing here. We'll build our first auto regressive model using market data to understand price behavior. So again, it's the same. So again, if I were to transpose what we spoke about with regard to salaries, you can say, what determines the price of a stock? Well, one approach is you can say the price of a stock is determined by fundamental factors, how the country the economy, is doing, how the sector is doing, how its competitors are doing, how the industry is doing, etc, right? So these become like x1 x2 x3 but the auto regressive or the time series approaches Don't, don't get lost with all these factors. Just think about the fact that the price of a asset is mainly driven by its price in the previous say, candle, right? That candle would be the previous day, the previous week, the previous month, the previous year, or even the previous. Minute for that matter, right? If you're looking at minute level canvas, all right, yeah, now I'm going to, again, take a look at the questions panel. So before I go ahead, there was one interesting comment I saw.

Speaker 1  35:31  
Okay, Yash says, Isn't Arima contradiction to the concept of regression, which assumes no relationship between dependent it's a very, very sharp observation Yash, so what we see in the time series approach to regression is it is not so you're right about the fact that it uses, I would say, the framework of regression, but it has its own, you know, peculiar Ways in which it operates. So your observation is absolutely spot on, because there will be a relationship between if, let's say you have yt minus one and yt minus two and yt minus three on your RHS, there is going to be some relationship even between them. So that is so that is part of the way it operates, okay? So there will be that relationship, to be clear. There was also a comment on let me see thing one of the students asked.

Speaker 1  36:38  
So the point, I think this was a comment on markets being efficient and stock right now, fundamentally, whenever we come up with a trading strategy, right, it is to capture some inefficiencies that exist in the market, okay? Because if markets are perfectly efficient, right, there is, there is no way you will get an alpha return. The reason we are we all keep you know scouting for that elusive alpha is because the whole point of strategy building and strategy testing and strategy development is that pockets of inefficiencies exist in either certain assets for certain short periods of time, and we want to capitalize while the prices correct themselves as they go on, to become efficient. That's the point of anyways, finding any strategy. All right, okay, so I'm going to go ahead now. I'll come back to questions in a bit. Okay, so the first thing we'll do is we'll work with PayPal. So PayPal is a well known, you know, payment platform to make payment, payments online. It's been around for a while. So we'll work with weekly data of PayPal. So we'll download from 2015 till now. So you have about 2600 rows of data from 2015 till 2025 that's almost like 1011, years of data. What we are now going to do is we are going to down sample them. Right? We are going to go from daily to weekly. Why are we doing that? Because if we typically look at low frequency or video frequency strategies, people often work with weekly data, they don't necessarily have to work with daily data, right? So. So anyways, for fun, we will work with weekly data. So in order to do that, we apply the dot resample method. And within that, we specify that for open, we will take the first price of that week. For high, we will take the maximum price that it hit in that particular week. Low would be the minimum close, would be the last price that it came to that week, and same for adjusted close, right? So we do all of that, and we end up with about 540 observations for weekly data. This is how our observations look. So the adjusted close was about $38 in middle of 2015 and it is about $61 in 2025 now what we want to do is here we are plotting the returns as well as the prices. So in order to visualize, we use a routine called subplots, and we plot both just a minute. My apologies if my voice sounds a bit raspy. I am having a bit of a sore throat and a cold, so every now and then I think I end up sneezing, I'll try to put myself on mute when I do that. Right.

Speaker 1  39:59  
Okay. Yes. Okay, so I was talking about plotting both the returns as well as the prices. So when you do that, what you observe is that when it came to the prices of PayPal, they were going steadily up until about 2020 and then it went through a phase where it really started rising rapidly, and then it went through a phase where it fell rapidly. And it's in fact gone back to levels that it was at around 2018 right? So the stock hasn't been doing particularly well. Nevertheless, we also plot its returns. And like we saw in the previous case, when you put a zero level line, here, you can see that the returns keep hovering around zero, right? Like we saw in the daily returns case of SNP, you have phases where the returns are like very, very wall volatile, and there are phases where it's not so like this particular phase where it's super volatile, is the phase where the price really crashed through the year, right for the whole of 2022 if you look at maybe phases where It wasn't too volatile, it is steadily rising, right? So this plain observations, so the returns clearly appear more stable because it's always hovering around zero. And this whole idea where a certain characteristic of an asset keeps staying stable over time is called stationarity right now, stationarity is, I would say, like a technical term for under for being more precise in describing what we would, colloquially in English, Call it call stability, right So, if we say a particular process is stationary, what we are seeing is that it is actually a stable process. What does it exactly mean? Well, there are very, very technical definitions to stationarity, and if you, you know, look it up, you will find very formal treatments of that word or that phrase. I would say, simply put, you should think of stationarity as this, that if you were to compute, if you are looking at a stationary process, then the mean stays more or less constant throughout the period of observation, the standard deviation stays more or less constant throughout the period of the observation. For example, if I were to compute the mean in the year 2016 it is going to be kind of similar to the mean in 2017 or 2018 or 2019 or any of these years. Now contrast this with what would happen if I compute the mean for the year 2016 or 2017 or 2018, the price means would vastly be different from each other, right? Same with standard deviation. So you can compute the standard deviation at different phases, and you will find that there is not much difference. That is what we mean by stationarity. So we'll there are far tighter ways to measure it and observe it and determine whether something is or is not but for now, just keep in mind that stationarity is equivalent to stability. Okay. Now, one thing to remember is that returns are almost always stationary, not so when it comes to prices, I refer to prices of equities and the like. I'm not so fixed income instruments are totally out of the purview of what we're talking about, right? Okay? And since we like things which are stable, or what we call stationary, we prefer to model returns, since they are stationary, not prices, right? So now the first step we want to take when you talk about time series modeling with respect to markets, is, since I just told you about our preference for stationary processes. We will use the return auto regressive model that we want to build will be based on returns. Okay? So we will say the returns today is based on returns of the previous day, since we are looking at daily returns. So if I said returns this week, I would say returns in the previous week. So in my spreadsheet, I think I used beta zero and beta one and stuff right here in this equation I'm using. So just let me show this again. So here we were using beta zero, beta one. Return, whereas in the notebook we are using, I think alpha and beta, yeah, alpha and beta. So we say returns today is alpha plus beta into returns yesterday plus noise. So alpha is the average return when there is no momentum. Beta is how much yesterday's return affects today's returns right

Speaker 1  45:34  
now, when you talk about the different types of values that beta can take now. Beta can take positive values, negative values, or you can say zero values, right so? And in reality, when I say greater than zero, they are they, they would be between zero and one, not even like. Greater than zero doesn't mean it will be like two and three and four. It would, it would be like a point seven or a point six, point 8.9, stuff like that. Similarly, when you say mean reversion beta less than zero, we are again referring to values between zero and minus one, right? They tend to be in that range. And when we say it is like greater than zero, it's basically between zero and one, we say that this particular process has it's a trending stock, or it's a trending asset that is, positive returns tend to follow positive returns. And if it's mean reverting, then positive returns tend to fall be followed by negative returns. And if we find that beta is equal to zero, it means that yesterday tells us nothing about what is going to happen today, right? So this is simply put, what an ER one model is. Now suppose you want to check if your returns are stationary, right in the previous case, I told you how, by observing we can say it. The good thing is, there are multiple ways for us to check it. So there's this nice statistical test called the augmented Dickey fuller. So we import that from stats models. It's called ad Fuller, augmented Dickey fuller. And when you import it, you can compare the P values, and if the P value is less than point o5, it is stationary, and if it is not, then it is non stationary. So what this tells you is that the null hypothesis is that the process we are studying is non stationary, but if the P value is less than point 05, we know it is stationary, right? So let's run this. So what this tells us is, when you run the stationary test on stock prices, it is non stationary, right? And if you run it on returns, it is stationary. Now the general rule of thumb in time series modeling is that if something is non stationary, you transform that process into a stationary process. Right when you talk about market data, the simplest way to transform a process which is non stationary to stationary is to move from prices to returns right, which, anyways, we keep calculating return. So rather than modeling the prices, we start modeling the returns right. So what we can gather from the plots and stuff is that prices are non stationary. That is, they tend to trend, and returns are stationary because they fluctuate around a stable mean, right? So that is why most models are applied to returns or differenced prices, right? What do you mean by differenced prices? I'll show you what I mean, what we mean by that. So difference prices means, suppose you have prices like this, 101 104 102 9897 90 904, suppose these are the prices, rather than trying To model this series, because it keeps going up and down, and you never know if it could go from 100 to not just 104 it may go to 110 120 and stuff. You work with the differences of successive primaries, right? So you keep computing the differences, and you try to model this set of numbers. Either we do that or we work with returns, which is really just this number divided by the previous price, right? That's what returns are. So you can work with returns. So either, so returns is kind of scale. It's a scaled version of this, right? That's what it is. So. Okay, so let's go back to our notebook,

Speaker 1  50:10  
and what we see is that we okay now. So next thing that we are going to do is is to plot something called the ACF and the pacf. So again, two new concepts that are getting introduced. Now I'll talk about what they are. It's called the ACF and the pacf. So I'm going to go back to my trusted spreadsheet. So

Speaker 1  50:44  
and we'll talk about these. ACF means auto correlation function, and pacf means partial auto correlation function. So let's first work with ACF, okay, so just like we saw what auto regression means. So auto regression means regression on itself, right? So let me remind you, auto regression, compared to normal regression, is regression. Of a variable on itself that is a past version of itself, right? So you will take one period prior, two periods prior, something like that.

Unknown Speaker  51:38  
Now, similarly, autocorrelation is relation is correlation of a variable

Speaker 1  51:52  
with past versions of itself, right? So again, sometimes when you talk about standard correlation, you'll have, like, set, a set of values of x and say y. So x is, you know, it goes from 12345678, and five. Say it takes values like, 3234 2745, so, 542,

Speaker 1  52:26  
5647 right. So suppose you want to compute the correlation between these two. You use something like this in Excel, where you specify the two arrays. This is x and this is why. So here it tells you that the correlation with these two variables is point eight, one, right? So this is standard correlation. This is, I think, Pearson correlation. So let's just call it correlation. So correlation. Now auto correlation would mean that instead of this, we'll say what we have here is XT, right? So we are observing how XT changes over time, and then you have xt minus, say, one, right? So t minus one means you are observing the value of x1 period late, right? So this becomes x t minus one. So it's like operate using the shift operator, and you now compute the correlation between these two arrays of numbers, right.

Speaker 1  53:47  
Right? Similarly, you can take X t minus two and so on, right. You can compute it in that now the good thing is, you are never going to calculate this by hand or manually the way I'm showing it. You know what I'm showing you now is only to build showing this on spreadsheets is only To build intuition. You'll never calculate correlations or auto relations like this ever again in the context of market data, okay, but be that as it may, this is how we compute auto correlation? Similarly, you can compute it with XD and XD minus two, right? You can do the same thing X so here it will be like this, and you can compute actually, you know what? Let's do one thing. Let's take y values so. Then we should get more interesting numbers. So let's make this yp yt

Unknown Speaker  55:11  
minus one and yt minus two, right? So here you will measure the correlation between

Speaker 1  55:26  
these series of numbers and these series of numbers, right? So you have some values now. This number, point 478, is the ACF at lag one. This is called ACF at lag one, and this is called ACF at lag two, and you can compute this ACF at lag three and four and so on right. You can keep computing this until you compute, say, ACF at lag say, 30, right? You can keep doing this. So this is what auto correlation gives you. Now, partial auto correlation

Speaker 1  56:15  
is a special case of auto correlation, right? So now I'll tell you with respect to auto correlation, right? Auto correlation measures the linear strength of the relationship between, say X t and X t minus say K, okay, suppose we are talking about ACF at lag k. A auto correlation at lag k measures the linear strength correlation between these two so including the indirect relationships. That is to say, suppose I tell you that today's price depends on the price five days prior. But it doesn't only depend on the price five days prior. Directly, it also depends on the price five days prior via the fourth day prior. That is to say, the fifth day's price. Fifth five days Prior's price influences the fourth day's price, and the fourth day's price influences today's price, so therefore, indirectly, also it's contributing to the way today's price is moving, or is valued right similarly at three days prior, two days prior, and Monday prior. So even though you're looking at four days prior, it measures basically, simply put it measures both the direct and the indirect relationships together, right? Oops, do? I lost all those words measures, both direct and indirect relationship between those two values, right? What partial autocorrelation does is it only measures the direct relationship between, say, XT and XT minus k, right? Again, I'm getting into the weeds here. You will never get into these details in future. But since these names keep coming up and people keep getting, you know, stuck in quicksand when they see these names, I'm trying to build a little bit of intuition here. Okay, so before some curious members asked me how the partial auto correlation is computed. The partial auto correlation is computed using multiple linear regression. I'm going to leave it at that, and those of you who are interested, I'm going to point you to resources to get into the math. Using multiple integration, we can compute the PS here right now. The best part about all these modern statistical libraries is you will never get into the direct calculation of any of these things. You are always going to directly use the. Functions such as well. Let me see plot ACF for us, you will use something like plot ACF, or you use something like plot pacf. And there are similar such functions to compute the values right plot ACF and plot PCF only plots the computed values on a chart. Okay, so now that I've given you a little background on what AC and pacf are, let me now tell you what these plots are. In these plots, on the y axis you have the value of correlation, and on the x axis you have the lags, right? So this is lag zero, lag one, lakh, two lakh, three and this goes up to lag 15. Okay. So what this ACF plot tells us is that the ACF of the returns in a given week with itself is one which is pretty obvious right now, the the ACF of the returns with on a given week, in a given week with the previous week is something negative. So it's like maybe, like minus point one or so. Lag two, the value seems to be around minus, or rather, it seems to be positive. So point maybe 05 at lag three, it seems nearly zero at lag four, also it seems 04. And 123, okay, five and six. It's like negative seven. It is zero. It's here. It's positive again, and so on, right? And if you look at the pacf, they have almost an identical look. So it's negative at lag one, positive at lag two, and stuff and so on. Right now, this blue shadow that you see here is what is called the shadow of significance. Okay, so if you see these spikes jutting out of that blue shadow, it means it is pretty important, and it's a very visible sign that there is auto correlation in the weekly returns, or partial auto correlation in the weekly returns. Okay? They like for instance, at lag 11, it seems to be nearly jutting out on both ACF and PAC, right? That's what it tells us this particular chart. Now, don't get worried about the fact that this there's so much of stuff. I told you. We will keep on looking at such charts. We will keep on looking at such plots throughout today and tomorrow. So since this is the first time you're seeing it, you might get a bit spooked, but it's just going to get more and more familiar with you as today and the next class moves along. Okay? So coming back here, when we look at the patterns, what we are seeing is that this is how the ACF and phdf of the PayPal looks right? Now what we are going to do is we are going to arbitrarily select AR one. Why are we selecting AR one? Just for fun. Okay? Because it's the first time we are trying it. We want to try to use the AR one model to predict next week's returns. So essentially, what AR one is saying is next week's returns depends on this week's returns. And how does it depend with this equation? So it it is saying returns this week is equal to alpha plus beta into returns last week plus noise. Or you can say returns next week is equal to alpha plus beta into returns this week plus noise, right? That's what it means. And if the prediction happens to go be greater than zero, we will go long. If the prediction is less than zero, we will go short, right? So you're going to keep updating these predictions each week. That is to say, I will use all the data available to me until today to make a prediction for next week. Then once next the whole of the next week elapses on next Friday or Saturday, I'm going to use all the data, including the latest week, to make a prediction for the subsequent week, right? So I'm going to keep making predictions every week. So this is what is called Making rolling forecasts. I am not making a forecast sitting here today for the next 10 weeks. I am going to sit here today and make a forecast only up for next week, then next week. I will only make a forecast for the week after the week after. I am only going to make a forecast for the week after that week, right? So this approach is closer to how professional investors design systematic study, that is, they make it dynamic, and they keep regularly updating it, and they make it data driven, right? So I think now is a good time for us to take a short break, so when we come back, we will create this in. AR one strategy, and we will see how it performs. Okay, so I'm going to open the Wait a second, accidentally.

Unknown Speaker  1:05:31  
Yeah,

Unknown Speaker  1:06:02  
much of a difference whether you work with one or the

Speaker 1  1:06:14  
other. All right, folks, let's continue. We stopped. If we take a look at some questions.

Speaker 1  1:06:36  
Okay, is it better to work with log returns so we have normal distribution. Oh, yeah, you can work with log returns, but there's not much of a difference whether you work with one or the other. We assume that the stock tends to move in the same direction as the previous. So beta will remain the same. No, I mean, we don't know, for now, at least we don't know whether it's going to move in the same direction or not. Money, content, asked, Can you talk a little more on unemployment points? I will talk about all these things, guys. For now, I'm going to go and start with the strategy bit. Okay, let's close this

Unknown Speaker  1:07:13  
and go back to our notebook. Okay, so here what we are doing is we're

Speaker 1  1:07:23  
is we are going to, let's see what the function does. It says, Create AR strategy, and you're going to use the previous 100 weeks in order to essentially use Arima, right? Arima is one of the routines. And when you say specify order equal to one comma zero, comma zero, you are so this first one refers to the fact that the order of the auto regressive component is one, and the remaining being zero just means that we are working with an AR one. So in order to work with an AR one, you have to set order equal to one comma, zero, comma, zero. So you initialize the model like that, and then you fit it with our required data, okay? And then you make a one step ahead forecast based on this. So we will initialize this function, and after that, we are going to use the weekly returns column, which is the data for our model. And we will work with it, right? Because in train series, anyways, we have mentioned it is data dot, right. So let's see what happens. We will run this. We are running it. So let me walk you through what we are doing here. We are building an AR. One, remember that we are running the AR one hundreds of times. Why? Because we are running it for every forecast using the previous 100 Days, previous 100 weeks. Sorry, to make the 100 and first prediction right? Always, we are only making the prediction for one the one period ahead of where we are standing, right. And then we want to compare the strategy returns that we are computing with the actual returns. Because, anyways, we have all the data with us right. So we will do that, and we will see what happens. So we have processed the first 100 out of the 540 odd. Now we are at 200

Unknown Speaker  1:09:36  
another 100 are done. Another 100 done.

Speaker 1  1:09:47  
Okay, so it took over 25 seconds, and you got these signals, one, one plus one minus one and all that. And once you have these details, so you have the actual returns and the predicted returns, right? So based on the. Prediction. So the prediction was point 005, it says you have to go long. If it is point 0067, you go long. This is negative, so you go short, right? And we will see what happens. So in order to compute the performance, we have all these performance metrics that we will use, right? So you want to know the total strategy returns. So for that you're going to do is come prod. Since we are working with percentage returns, right? Because I think returns that we computed was percentage change, let's see where we computed returns earlier. Somebody was asking, should we work with longer? You can work with either. But since we are working with SIM, simple returns, we will have to do this whole one plus stuff. Yeah, here's where we have computer returns, right? It's percentage change. So anyways, going back to what we were doing, this step is essentially for that one plus stat return comprod. So again, this is some expression that you are familiar with. You have seen it the last time we met. Right? If you want to compute this the Sharpe ratio for the strategy and the buy hold, you compute the mean divided by the standard deviation. And you want to annualize it, so you multiply it by the square root of 52 right? So we are computing it in a simple way. You might want to all subtract the risk free rate, but we are just ignoring it. Here you want to see how many of your trades were wins. So win rate you can compute, similarly, you can compute the drawdown throughout the period, and yeah, and then we will see how the performance looks. So here, what we are finding is that the strategy gave us about 29% whereas buy and hold would have given us 19% so the excess you got about nine and a half to 10% more, right? The Sharpe ratio for the strategy was point two, seven, the Sharpe ratio for buy and hold was point two five, the win rate was 52.4 and the maximum drawdown was minus 76% which is quite crazy, right? So if you want to visualize the performance of the strategy, you can compare it to buy and hold. You can do this comparison of prediction accuracy through that entire period, you can look at drawdown, and let's just plot everything together here. So what you find is, if you look at the AR one right, there was a period where AR one was hugely underperforming compared to buy and hold right throughout this 2020, 2021, period, the buy and hold it a lot better. And it is really around, around this period that the AR one starts doing better. But by and large. If you look at this chart, it really seems like it's the buy and hold which is more consistent, right? If you want to look at the prediction accuracy throughout the period, so a random guess is 50% so there was a period where the accuracy went as high as 70 75% but then there was also periods where it went as low as like 25% right. And overall, you can see that there were phases where the predictions were really good and there were times when it was terrible, right. So even if you look at the drawdown, so the drawdown here has gone as low as 76% right. So our prediction accuracy was 52 our best six month accuracy was 77 worst was 23% and the thing is, what So overall, it seems to have performed better than buy and hold, but there's still a lot of concerns that we would have with regard to the strategy in its present shape, right? So what kind of work? Well, we had an accuracy of more than 50% which is, I suppose, a good thing, but it's not much more, right? So it's not much better than a random guess. So the predictions weren't random, but they were still not particularly great, right? So it predicted up and down moves with above 50% the logic, at least ostensibly, was sound. So using past returns to predict future is a simple, time tested idea, and since the execution was quite systematic, we had a strategy where you're constantly updating the model, and you decide to take positions, whether long or short, based on what your model keeps spitting out right now, what went wrong was the drawdowns. Okay, it's. Is just huge. Like 75% is just huge. Now in this period, incidentally, that we are looking at today, it has outperformed buy and hold. But last time, when I took this lecture, a few months back, it had underperformed buy and hold. Okay? So the last three months seems to have done better for this strategy. So that commentary that I've written here is not fully correct. This underperformed is not true for the present period. Okay, it's too simple. So in terms of the type, so AR one is relying on just a single signal, which is last week's returns, to predict this week, right? So it can be a bit simple for real world markets, so it could not handle certain things. And overall, our model has done okay, but it's not worthy of taking it into production or taking it into live markets, right? So even though we updated the model weekly, each version assumed that the next week would behave like the previous 100, right? This is not a very tenable assumption, right? And we need to build on the what we have started off with, right? So which brings us to the next topic, which is called stationarity. I had briefly alluded to it earlier. I want to talk a little more about stationarity now. Now, the thing with the AR one model is that, in general, it assumes that the variable that we are observing is stationary right? The process that we are observing as well as forecasting, is stationary. But the reality is, it's not so, as I had mentioned earlier, what do you mean by stationarity? It is that you assume that the mean stays more or less constant. You assume that wall also that is the variance. In our case, we measure volatility as standard deviation. That's how we measure volatility, right?

Speaker 1  1:17:21  
So, yeah, so you're saying that, that we are saying that even the variance of the wall has to stay constant, and the auto correlation that is a relationship with past values also doesn't change over so that is to say the past looks like the future. Things are stable, right? Why does this? Why is it so important? Because it assumes that market behavior stays consistent with the fact remains that markets keeps changing. You have this wall changes. You have crisis periods, right? So in, for instance, in 2008 when we had that whole credit crisis, undiversified assets start behaving like they have a correlation of like point seven and point eight and point nine right, because diversification goes for a complete toss. Everybody is like selling left, right and center. And during covid 19, many of the main reversion strategies got hammered. And during the whole of 2022 when there were multiple rate hikes by the Fed, long term momentum strategies got hammered so all these problems occurred because you are relying on past patterns. Now, before we go ahead and we talk about powerful more powerful models, we have to ask ourselves, are returns even stationary? Right? Because most statistical models assume that it's true that they stay stable or stationary, then, and if that itself is not true, then what's the point of even making any forecast, Right? But spoiler alert, things aren't so dire. There is some value to creating forecasts, because it does give us some alpha, right? And how do we check about whether something is stationary or not? You can check it either visually or statistically. Statistically. I We saw it a bit earlier. I'm going to repeat it again. Is we use something called the ADF test right now statistical tests are, I mean, I am only half joking when I say that statistical tests have been designed for those of us who are who get a bit paranoid and want confirmation and more confirmation that something is what it appears to be visually, right? So that's what many statistical tests the purpose of those tests are. So suppose we were to work with those same rolling returns that we spoke about, and you want to check if, visually, whether it's stationary or not. What we can do is we can compute the rolling mean and. The rolling standard deviation also. So we can even observe what's happening with the standard deviation over time, right? So when you do that here, you can see, firstly, the observed returns. So we have spoken about the observed returns for a while, right? You can see that phases are there when it's spikier, when it's less spiky. Now, if you look at the rolling mean, which is a red line, you can see that it was above zero for considerable periods, and then it went a little below zero, also for a bit, and then again it went above zero, but it's nearly zero. And yeah, this is how the rolling mean looks. The red line, the bright red line. Similarly, if you look at the bright green line, you can see that it keeps going up and down. By the way, someone had mentioned that the font is a bit less. Let me increase the Zoom quotient on my computer. Hopefully this would be okay, yeah, now, this is how the ruling starts look for return, right? Now, in general, if the red and green lines wander a lot, that is typically a red flag for non stationarity, right? So here, what we can see is that the red line is, it seems kind of stationary, but it's a green line that goes through these phases where it's stays up for quite a while, or it stays a little lower for quite a while, right? So rolling, mean is, stays mostly close to zero. And while there are some shifts, they are gradual. So mean seems to be relatively stable over time, whereas when you look at standard deviation, there is variation. So periods like 2020 you can see that it has gotten much higher, right? Even 2022 it's gotten higher, right? But even that, it remains in a certain range. So that is what the visual observation of our plots tells us. Right now, the let's look at the test now. This is a standard statistical test. It checks whether something a series has what is called a unit root, okay, without getting into the hairy details, this is just a very technical way of asking whether that particular process is stationary or not. That is whether many shocks that get imparted to this particular process, they persist for very long, or they fade away, right? So what we do in these cases is that we run the ad Fuller, which is a test routine within stats models, and it gives you all these different values, test statistic, P value, and so on. And you are really speaking concerned with the P value. So if the P value is less than 5% like here it is zero, you know that the series is likely to be stationary, right? So that is what the P values essentially tell us. So I'm going to again, go back to questions before I go ahead.

Speaker 1  1:23:33  
So Jesse says that the max drawdown is insane. How do we fix that? Yeah, that's a very good point. The way to fix it is that don't use the AR in its in the form in which we have it currently, right? Because clearly, it's not something that is going to appeal to most investors. Nobody likes to see their capital erode the way where it becomes like a quarter of its value. Sonia asked, do we want it to be stationary? So like I've mentioned earlier, we always like our the series that we study to become stationary, right? So ours, what if we get a P value other than zero? You're looking for p values which are less than 5% if it is greater than 5% then you have to figure out ways to make your series stationary.

Unknown Speaker  1:24:19  
Okay, what are we going to do with the rolling standard deviation, rolling mean?

Speaker 1  1:24:26  
So for now, we only computed it in order to check the stationarity visually, right? We are we going to use it for predictions? Not really in the the time series approach, in other approaches, you may use it, but not in today's approach, is it okay?

Speaker 1  1:24:46  
What is the null hypothesis of ADF test? So the null hypothesis is actually you should be able to predict, or tell me what the null hypothesis just based on this statement, right? Because. So if this value is saying less than point 05 right? It means this is the alternative hypothesis. The alternative hypothesis is this, the series is stationary. And if this is the alternative hypothesis, the null hypothesis is the series is non stationary. All right? So

Speaker 1  1:25:26  
ah, so vira Raja says sometimes stock returns are not normal. What to do then you don't have to worry about whether it's normal or not normal. For now, when we are using this whole auto regressive approach, we are not really checking for normality, at least for now, right? So, Sonia is again asking want to use rolling I, as I mentioned, Sonia just a while back, we are not going to use it to predict for next period. Okay. We are not using rolling standard deviation and rolling mean to predict for next period at least as far as AR goes, we ar one goes, we use only the previous periods returns to predict the returns of the next period. Okay. So

Speaker 1  1:26:06  
okay, so let us move ahead. So now brings us to an important phase of our class, which is to look at ARIMA models. Okay, so Arima is an important family of models, which makes the which is the heart of time series modeling. So I'm going to open my spreadsheet now because I have a bunch of things to talk about. So, so far, we have seen the AR models, right? AR models. So, as mentioned earlier, AR models are saying returns this week depend on or are influenced by returns in the previous Week. This is AR one, okay, if I say, let's see,

Speaker 1  1:27:31  
actually, let me use a slightly stronger words. Are

Speaker 1  1:27:44  
I can be calculated using returns in the previous week. Right now, if I want to use an AR to model, what I will do here is I'm going to say that returns this week can be calculated using returns in the previous week and the week before that, right? So this becomes an AR two model. I need to put another parentheses. This is what an AR one and an AR two does. And this you can go on to generalize for AR three, Ark and so on, ARP and so on, right? So if I, in fact, if I generalize it to an ARP model, in this context, would mean returns this week can be calculated Using returns in the previous week, the week before that.

Unknown Speaker  1:29:08  
Uh, until the week or rather, three weeks prior, right? So you're going back all the way there.

Speaker 1  1:29:19  
But what happens is we realize that the AR approach doesn't fully explain what's happening to returns this week, right? So let's, let's, let's put it this way. Suppose I'm trying to make a prediction. Okay, so my returns, suppose I use, let me just use the Y Y t, and this is y t minus one. Okay, just a second, guys. I need to cough. For a second.

Speaker 1  1:31:13  
Yes, sorry. So coming back to what I was talking about, when we are talking about YT and Y t minus one, right? When we are trying to make these predictions, suppose I make a prediction for Let me see. So we'll put this to be t equal to 1t, equal to two, and suppose we are at t is equal to 10, right? And we want to keep making predictions for all these periods, right? Suppose, let's say this is the predicted YT. So this predicted yt is derived from yt minus one, and after that, we will have the observed yt, right? Because YT will eventually occur at time, t equal to 1t, equal to two, and so on, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:32:15  
So suppose the predicted YT was 2.1% and the observed was 2%

Speaker 1  1:32:28  
then at t equal to two we ended up with minus. The prediction was minus 3% but the actual was 1% then you end up with 2% percent, oops, 2% when the actual ended up with was, say, 1.7% and so on, right? So what this is telling us is that there is always an error in the predicted minus observed. So if you do something like predicted minus observed, there is an error that is occurring at every time interval. Right? What if we were to try and model even the errors meaning based on the error that occurred in the previous instance? Can we predict what the error this time would be. That is to say we so based on errors, we can try to predict our errors. At each time instant right and use the predicted errors to correct the predicted values. So what this? Hopefully this will improve the quality of forecasts. Again, I'm going to take a left field example. Okay, now I'm moving away, fully, moving away from markets, to talk about what the the underlying concept here is? So let's say we are dealing with a bunch of students. Okay, we are dealing with a class of 50 students. Want to write it here left field, exactly. So we have a class of 50 students who are taking an exam, or rather, who take exams every week. Okay? They take exams every week, and these are their predicted scores, and these are their actual scores. Okay, so each student, so student a Student B. C, C, D, E and so on are asked their scores, right? So this is for, let me see,

Unknown Speaker  1:35:15  
week one. Okay, similarly, you have scores for a week three, week four, and so on, right?

Speaker 1  1:35:30  
So one is after the exam, you ask Student A that, hey, how much do you think you are going to score out of 50? So this guy says, Okay, I'm going to score 40. And the actual observed score after the test has been checked, is that this guy actually scored, say, 42 similarly, you ask this girl, how much will you score? She says, I'll score 36 and she ends up with 32 you similarly ask see how much she'll score. She says, I'll score 42 and she ends up with 4040 and so on. Right. She he says, 45 he ends up with 41 he says, 25 ends up with 30 right. And you can do this for week two, week three, week four, and so on. So based on how these people so again, we can do the same thing, right? Predicted score, actual score, predicted score, actual score, for each week. So one way is that you observe what a says, okay, or rather, based on how a has performed, you keep predicting, or a keeps predicting. So a says, Okay, this week I score I will score 38 this week, I will score 39 this week, I'll score 45 and so on. Similarly, we will make a prediction and so on. Now, what you will see is, after a point in time, you will notice that

Speaker 1  1:37:15  
a right, he systematically predicts lesser than his actual score, right? So, prediction was 40 but scores, 42 prediction was 38 scores, 39 prediction was 39 scores, 43 so there is a systematic under estimation of observed or actual scores, right? Which means, can you then use this difference, the past differences, so the fact that there was a difference of two here, can you use that also to correct for his predicted score? Right? Similarly for Student B, right? So she scores 40. Here, she predicts 40, she predicts 32 and she predicts 25 okay. So here, when she says 40, she ends up with 3435 here she ends up with 30 here she ends up with 22 so here you can see she's systematic overestimation. So if you ask how much she'll score, she ends up overestimating her performance, right? So can we use this additional information to correct for their predictions. In other words, can we take the errors past, errors that occurred, and use it to improve future forecasts. That in a nutshell, is what the moving average tries to do. So this moving average. So this so now let me come to Arima. This stands for auto regressive, integrated. I is integrated moving average. Now I want to draw a very clear distinction. This moving average has nothing to do

Speaker 1  1:39:36  
with the SMA, LMA, Moving Average crossover types for strategies, approaches we have seen thus far. This moving average phrase is used in a totally different context when we are talking about time series. Okay? Here, the moving average refers to the moving average of errors in the model. So what do you mean by errors predicted minus object. This is what we mean by errors, right? So you're trying to use that difference of errors to improve your forecast, and that is what moving average does, okay? And this then we come to the i. So the i is the i is the part which accounts for non stationary behavior

Unknown Speaker  1:40:52  
of the process being studied, right? So when? So this, I again, has nothing to do

Speaker 1  1:41:07  
with integration. Integration integrated from calculus. Okay? This would bring a relief to many of us who did not like that topic way back in high school or in our bachelors, right? So it is just a word that is being used in a completely different context, okay, and therefore now coming to the each part, I and M, a, right? So then we say AR has an order. So this order tells you how many past observations are we going to include in our model, right? So when we say order is equal to P, this means P past say returns, because we are referring to returns P, past returns would be used in model Construction. Here we use the notation D, so d means so we use a D. So if d is equal to zero, process is stationary. If d is equal to one, process is non stationary and needs one differencing operation to make it stationary. Now, as you might imagine, if d is equal to two, you need two difference in order to make it again. Here I'm building intuition. Okay? In reality, we'll I'll tell you what will happen in reality. In reality, you will never have to do these things ever again. Okay, now this here again. There is a question of order. So here, the notation used for order is Q, okay, so here it means Q past errors will be used to forecast the error will get in the present. So basically, what you're trying to do is you know that AR, by itself, is going to create some error because of this kind of systematic under estimation, systematic overestimation, or maybe it's more under, less over, like in this simplistic case, I made it that student a always underestimates her scores. I said b always overestimates her scores. In reality, what happens is and a tends to underestimate more than she over estimates. B tends to overestimate more than she underestimates and so on, right? Without getting into that, you know, little wrinkle I want, what I'm trying to say is that we use past errors to forecast the error that we are going to get in a pure AR case, right? So in other words, just combining an AR and an MA is going to improve the quality of your forecast. That's the theoretical expectation. Will the data then bring to bear what I just said? Well, that is why we do back testing, right? To see whether our cherished assumptions eventually come true at any point in time, right? So that is what the AR I and MA try to do. Okay? Now the good news, okay. Good news is Harima models are. Fully constructed using these awesome statistical libraries in programming languages. So in our language, for example, example, Python. So Python has stats models, and there are lots of different libraries that fully will do the ARIMA modeling for you. You never have to write out equations by hand, the way we did all this, beta zero, beta one and stuff like that. You will never need to calculate the values of coefficients by hand, right, you will directly work with predictions which are arrived at by using ARIMA models at different time instances, right? All the messy stuff we went over now is to repeat the phrase that I've been saying ad nauseam, is to build a little intuition on what's happening behind the curtains. Okay, so now we are going to go back to our note.

Speaker 1  1:46:53  
Okay, so AR models are good, but investment professionals use Arima because they handle three things. One is the AR part, which uses past returns that we just did the I handles non stationary data automatically. So I spoke about differencing and this and that you never have to do any of this operations by yourself. Nothing. The model does everything for you. But the problem is, if we keep getting used to black box models, right? We really never know what is happening inside that box. We so even if we don't need to know the complete inner workings of these models, we we need to have some handle on what's going on. And that is what that spreadsheet based explanation that I tried to create now have to do, right? So now, for instance, this moving average uses past forecast errors to improve the predictions. Right. Now, from a trading standpoint, why do these things matter? The AR part we spoke about earlier, right? The beta values that we get, it will capture momentum or mean reversion. We are trying to capture that behavior via our coefficients. The I part will try to adapt when market trends change. So suddenly, if something stationary becomes non stationary, the eye is going to try and catch catch it, right? It's going to try and detect it. And the MA part is to learn from the mistakes that we made in our predictions, right? So what we are now going to do is we are going to upgrade our strategy to Arima for fun. Okay? Previously, we just used AR now we will use Arima. Okay, so now what we'll do is, first, I'm going to print again the ACF and pacf plots. Okay, so you can see the ACF and PSA now. Now what I'm going to do after I talk a little bit about this, is I'm going to go to the questions, because I can imagine that this, this can be a bit tricky, and I'm happy to look at questions that combine it. I will keep answering questions until the cows come home. Guys, I have no problem answering these questions, because I can understand it's this is some pretty heavy duty stuff that I'm throwing at you. If you're completely new to this topic. This, this can seem quite, you know, stiff, okay, all right. Now, this plot we had seen before, so to remind you what this is, this is the ACF plot. The on the y axis, you have the correlations, right? Which is why correlations are going from minus one to plus one. All our correlations are very small values, right? They're all within the band of plus point two, five to minus point two, five. Same for PS here. Now I'm going to tell you an important point, okay, and I'm going to say it twice, because this bears repeating. The ACF plot gives us a clue as to what the order of the MA of our model should be, okay, and the Create plot gives you a. A clue as to what the order of your AR part of your model should be. So let me repeat. You have three components to your model, right? You have AR, I and MA. Now, one important decision that we need to make is, what should the order of our model be? Should? Should our AR have like 2123457, 1020, right. Similarly for Ma, should we have 012, 1015, right. That's the point. So the ACF gives us a hint as to what the MA order should be, and the pacf gives us an idea as to what the AR order should be. Now a simple way to remember this is ACF, since it starts with an A will not tell you ar, but it will tell you Ma, that at least that's how I remember it, right? So ACF corresponds to Ma, pacf corresponds to AR, okay, so here, for instance, what you see is, and by the way, this is only a starting point, okay, this is not like some perfect way to arrive at it. It's a heuristic. It's a heuristic by which we arrive at what model we want to start with. For instance, you can take 12345, any of these numbers. Now we typically like to take smaller values. We you we try to avoid taking it to be one because one becomes too simple. But we'd also try to avoid making it like six and seven. We in finance, we typically go to say two or maybe three. Same for the MA part. So since here, what we are seeing is that one is nearly touching the edge of that blue shadow. AR two is sort of halfway between the blue shadow and the zero line. And at AR three, sorry, at lac three and four, it is like really low. So what we will do then is, since this is kind of halfway up to the blue, we will take the MA. So since we are looking at ACF, we are talking about the order for the MA part, so we will take that to be two, and the PSA and ACF have identical charts. So we'll do the same thing for the AR part by looking at pacf. So effectively, what that does is it gives us two for the AR, two for the MA. And if we want to work with prices, by the way, not returns. If you want to work with prices, we can basically just take v equal to one, okay? Because in finance, the good thing is, in most cases, the order of the integration will be one that is the prices just need to be differenced, or you just need to calculate returns, and you will have something stationary. So it's a standard assumption that if you're working with prices, we can work with a D equal to one, okay, so that is what we'll do. Let us look what I've mentioned here. So based on ACF, PSA patterns, Arima 212, is a good starting point for price data. The reason I've taken so the benefit of making this one is we don't even have to go through the process of computing returns. We can directly work with prices. Okay, so Arima 212, tells us that p is equal to two. We look back two periods for patterns. D equal to one is telling us we'll work with price changes, not raw prices. And Q is equal to tells us uses, uses the last two forecast errors to refine predictions. Okay, that's what we are doing. So at this stage, what we'll do is, as mentioned before, we will continue to make rolling forecasts right? So as mentioned we were at any point in time, we will take the past data and only compute one period out. Okay? So the benefit of taking an Arima is that so personally, the benefit of rolling forecast is that you're not working with static models. You're constantly upgrading your model. Okay, regardless of whether it's AR or MA or Arima, the rolling forecast, by definition, means you're not working with the static model. You're working with a model which is constantly updating itself, right? So it addresses the benefit of rolling is it addresses the core challenge of a decay that occurs in dynamic markets, right? So that is what we are doing. Let me see, I think now our. And might be a good time for us to take a short break, and then we can continue working with our ARIMA model, and then we'll talk about the ARIMA based strategy. Okay, so I am going to open the calendar again,

Unknown Speaker  1:55:19  
so let's meet again at 1820 Okay, so I'll see you guys in about 2p.

Speaker 1  1:55:51  
Minus one objective is to estimate next week's performance based on the most recent folks. Let's

Speaker 1  1:56:08  
all right, folks, let's continue. So before I go ahead, I'm going to take a quick look at some questions. So again, why have we considered the last 100 weeks of data when our objective is to estimate next week's performance based on the most recent week, right? So we are using the last 100 weeks, right? So when we say we are using the last 100 weeks, it implies that we will observe what happened, let's say in week t minus one to observe, to figure out what happened in week t similarly, we look at what happened in t minus two, to observe what happened in t minus 1t, minus three, to observe what happened in t minus two. So when I say we are going back 100 weeks, you are looking at 100 such pairs, okay? In order to figure out that, okay, this is what is happening in successive observations, right? To come up with the quantum of influence that the previous week has on any given week, that is what going back 100 weeks means, right? So jcrs order, as in how many periods should be used in our model? Yes, that is what order means in this context. That is correct. Yes. See, there's a correct

Speaker 1  1:57:33  
understanding. We shall ask with no differencing. We can model returns directly, but when we difference it is not the returns we need to hold. So the thing is, when we are not differencing, you are right, we are modeling returns, but when we diff so we are not going to difference the returns. Like you mentioned, it's required. But typically what happens is we do the difference. So the differencing operation is done under the hood, right the moment you use the ARIMA mechanism, Arima will itself evaluate whether that needs to be done or not. Okay. Do we need to manually change the conditions for rolling for I'm not quite sure I understand that question. Rather, Carlos asked, don't we have to use lock prices instead of prices for Arima two and two? No, we don't need to we can work with directly with prizes. We can work with simple returns. Also, there's nothing stopping us from working with them directly. So things are going a bit overwhelming. Yes, Atharva, I hear you. It is a tough topic. I remember when I was in university and I was attending, I was doing a course in time series. It took me, I think about at least three weeks to figure out what was happening in the first week. So by the time I was attending the fourth week, I was just wrapping my head around what happened in the first week. So I know it is, it is a bit challenging, but like most hard things, it's a question of just reviewing the material, and suddenly things will fall. They will start clicking right? It's it's a case of reading something which is new to you. All right. Aditya padmanas, what will be the difference between return for AR versus differencing prices? No, they won't. So the value of coefficients will change. Otherwise nothing fundamentally changes. Okay, you can use either R asked, what is differencing operation? So, guys, I'm trying to steer clear of all these mathy questions, but I, as I explained in one of my spreadsheets a little earlier, differencing is what we do. Like, where did I show it? Excuse me, I did show it somewhere. Here. I had shown what differencing is here, right? So this is, these are prices. So these are different prices, so you observe the differences occurring between successive prices. So rather than dealing with 100, 101 104 102 you're dealing with 132, minus two, four and so on. That is what differencing is, just as simple as finding differences between successive prices. Radha says, Please explain the concept of D, as I mentioned, D is to see how many times we need to carry out the differencing operation to make something stationary. Here we are modeling Arima on returns. No, since we have made D equal to one, we are modeling Arima on prices. Okay? Yash, how to memorize Arima? Course, you don't have to memorize anything. What you do need to remember is that when you're using the ARIMA routine in stats models, the order in which you specify them is the AR, comma, I, comma, Ma, and that also is not really memorizing, because it's just following the same order as Arima so Vamsi Krishna

Speaker 1  2:01:09  
asked, What if it is not systematic underestimation, overestimation, and over weeks, it is a few of this and that. How can Arima help us in such scenario? So these are the kind of questions I am deliberately avoiding, because it gets into the math. Okay, all I'm telling you is that when you use Arima, it will try to capture, potentially, what happens in those situations that you just mentioned. So there will be cases where it is making some overestimation, some underestimations, it is trying to correct for it in some shape or form. Okay.

Speaker 1  2:01:47  
Jesse says null hypothesis. What was that? Null Hypothesis? Like a standard assumption, ADF test, below point o5 indicates the hypothesis that goes against standard or null That's correct. Yes. Okay,

Speaker 1  2:02:06  
in this Arima example we did today, so we haven't finished the ARIMA example. Yuan, what is the moving average use and what is the rule to trigger everything is going to now start coming together when I go back to the notebook. Okay, so now I think most of the questions have been covered. In case I've missed any question, the TA Devis will take a look at it, and if both of us miss it, please write to us and we will look at it. Post the lecture. I We both myself as well as the TA. Here, we try our best to cover all possible questions, but it's possible that we miss a few. In case we miss it, please excuse us and please write into us for any questions that you have. Okay. Okay, so now let me go back to the note.

Speaker 1  2:03:02  
Okay, now what we are going to do is we are going to create the ARIMA strategy, okay.

Speaker 1  2:03:17  
Okay. The idea of the strategy is very simple that if the price that we predict next week is higher than the closing price of this week, we go long. Else, if the price of the predicted price next week is less than the closing price of this week, we go short. Where is that getting expressed? It's getting expressed here. So what we are doing is we are making a forecast at this step. Forecast is equal to fitted model dot forecast, and this is the actual price. So what we are saying is that signal is equal to one if the forecast is greater than the last observed price, else it is minus one, right? That is what we are doing. So this is the how long does this take?

Unknown Speaker  2:04:09  
Okay, this takes like, two and a half minutes to run. Okay, so what I

Unknown Speaker  2:04:17  
will do is, okay, let me just run it. So I will talk about what is happening here.

Speaker 1  2:04:30  
So what we have done here is we have set the order of our model to be 212, we have hard coded our model to be 212, so every time we want to make a forecast we will build an Arima two and two. So when we say we are building an Arima two and two, what we are really doing is we are trying to find the value of those coefficients. What are those coefficients? I'll show you what those coefficients are.

Unknown Speaker  2:05:03  
So if I really try to write out the equation of Ariva, 212, it will look like something like this.

Speaker 1  2:05:10  
Okay, I'm sorry for putting you guys through this, but okay, let me just use returns. No, I'll use prices. P because we are working directly with prices now, right? And I'm writing the equation for Arima 212, okay, so the equation for Arima 212, would look something like this. T minus one is equal to, let's say alpha plus beta zero,

Speaker 1  2:05:52  
P, T minus one plus beta One. No, actually, we'll call this also beta one. Otherwise names become confusing, beta two, star, p, t, minus two. Okay, then you're going to have the errors. So if suppose we use gamma for so first we'll say, let me see what to use for errors. Let me just call it error underscore t. Okay, so error, underscore t plus gamma, one multiplied by error, underscore

Speaker 1  2:06:52  
T minus one plus gamma two, error, underscore, t minus. So, like I mentioned before, you will never need to write all these equations stuff. But when we say we are working with a model, what we really mean is that one second make this plus what we say when we are, when we say we are fitting and Arima 212, what this really means is we are estimating alpha, beta one, beta two, gamma one and gamma two. That is what we are doing. This is what it means when we say we are fitting an Arima to one. Okay, so let's come back to our spreadsheet. Sorry, our notebook. Okay, so this took, this will take too long, so we run this to see what happens, and you build a strategy based on the rules that you have set here, right? This took about one and a half minutes.

Speaker 1  2:08:26  
So sample predictions are the actual price was 51.72 the predicted price was 52.78 so based on the prediction, you decided to go short. You go short and so on. Okay, now you want to know what happened with regard to the returns, because you can check what happened to the returns, and then you can compare it with momentum and require and hold. So that is what we are doing here. So a time.

Speaker 1  2:09:05  
So in case of momentum, what we are seeing is saying is that we will go long if the last return was greater than zero, right? So we are essentially doing a three way comparison. We are comparing our Arima with a buy and hold approach and with a simple momentum approach, it says we go long if the last return is greater than zero, right?

Speaker 1  2:09:34  
That's it. So at this stage, what you then try to do is you try to compare the returns. So the ARIMA 212, in that period gives you about 29% with a point two, seven sharp buy and hold gives you 19 with a point two, five sharp and simple momentum gives you a negative 80% return, right? So that is what you have got based on. This. Now, obviously this is not enough, right? Like in the previous case, we can do a deep study by looking at things like drawdown and what was the other thing we had calculated. We computed, like a hit rate, number of winning trades, number of percentage of trades that you got which were correct, and so on, right? So there are multiple things you can compute in order to decide whether a strategy, how good does the strategy look, and whether you would be interested in taking it into production, right into the real markets. Now, on paper, this looks okay, because it's giving you, like, 10% more than buy and hold right okay, now I want to reiterate this whole choosing of the order of an ARIMA model, which I had spoken of earlier, right, with AZM and Pfc. So here we use Arima 212, on the price series. The question is, why not on Arima 111, or Arima 312, or any other combination. So to choose the right order, we rely on two tools, which is the ACF and the pacf, and they help us to decide how many terms we want on each side, right. So how many AR terms to use? We look at pacf. How many MA terms to use we look at ACM. So when we plot ACM and PCF to PAC to select an ARIMA model, always use them on a stationary Prime series, so like returns or difference prices. So how to read the plots? If the pacf at lag P you try Arima, PD, question mark. So basically pacf is telling you this, right? And if ACF cuts off at lack you, you try Arima question mark. DQ, right? Because this is kind of helping you determine the last part, if both cut off around lakh to a reasonable starting point is this. Now this is what I want to really emphasize. This whole idea of selecting a starting point is that it is a heuristic, right? It's a rule of thumb. Part of it comes from observing the ACF, PS, your plots. And part of it comes from experience, right? Experience of working a lot with market data, trying all these plots, to run dozens and dozens of such models, and over a few months, you will realize that okay, you start getting a gut feel that Okay, two or two is a better option than, say, 312, in your in the in the case that you are looking at, right? So this is something to keep in mind, how you arrive at what your starting point is. So this is, by the way, again, just the same plot, and how we ended up choosing 212, and stuff. So again, I want to take a look at questions before I go ahead.

Speaker 1  2:13:09  
Okay, Yash has made a beautiful observation. And Yash says, Can we run a loop of different PDQ to see which one performs best? Yes, you can absolutely do that. That's a very sharp observation and a good question. Yes. So why should we rely on this only? Why not we run a nested for loop? You can absolutely do that, right? Vishal asked, what is the momentum approach? So momentum means that if today's returns are positive, tomorrow's will also be positive. That is all it means, right? So this is like, trending and momentum is an approach that we use in the markets, right? That is what it is. Shreyas asked, why to predict price? That is like, you know, why do we predict prices the markets so that we can make good trades, right? So if I can predict tomorrow's price, I can decide what trade I want to make if tomorrow's price is greater than today's price, maybe I at markets. When markets open itself, I go and buy so that I can profit from it. Right? That's that's like a fundamental question, why? What's the point of prediction? The point of prediction is to help you make money off of it. What? You do with the prediction is a different thing altogether, by the way, because some people have a proclivity for options contracts, right? So sometimes what happens is, you may be making a forecast on returns, or you may be making a forecast on spot prices, but you will use that information to take positions in the options markets, the derivatives markets, different derivatives so somebody may want to buy something or go short on some futures contracts, somebody else may want to use that information to buy and sell a bunch of options contracts. Calls and. Notes, right? So what you do with a prediction is a function of your own preference or anti preference for certain instruments. There could be people who may even decide to use that information to say, trade in the Forex markets. I mean it, although it sounds kind of funky, people might depending on what business that firm is in, they might want to make some extrapolations from that data to take a view on how their local currency and the US dollar move, for instance, right?

Unknown Speaker  2:15:44  
So Ragam says d value would change the PQ, so how to design.

Speaker 1  2:15:52  
So the thing is, as I said, in finance, d, if you're working with prices, D is almost always one. So we don't really spend too much time worrying about the when we are dealing with market, financial market data. Okay, yeah. Shaas, can you share this? Excel after class is over, absolutely. I will be sharing this. I'll send it to my team, and they will share it with whoever is interested. Okay. Would you increase Excel font size? Sure, when I go back to the Excel I will Okay. Differences in price cause issues, because the differences become bigger and smaller over time, if the price tends, yeah, sure. I mean, you can experiment with it. Carlos, you can try using like prices, log prices, and see how it goes. Okay. Jesse asked if one week is up, one week is down, will it average out pretty good? I don't quite understand that question. Okay, so I think most of the Okay. I

Speaker 1  2:17:04  
Okay. JC asked trying to, can we combine different strategies in the same asset, so long as the shop is positive?

Speaker 1  2:17:21  
This is an interesting question, but I can't give you a generic answer here, because it is a little off topic. Actually, Jesse, I suggest you write this to us and get in touch with us via the Support Manager, because this is a little more detailed about combining strategies and so on. Okay, all right, let's go ahead. So now I want to, like, tie everything together in terms of all the things we covered, because we've covered like, we've come a long way. We've covered, like, many different things in the last two and a half three hours. So let's try to understand what we did. So we basically started off with some basic rules, right? We saw why those things fail, and then we started looking at exploring statistical models, because that is what essentially all these time series models are that these models are trying to adapt to changing markets. Why do they adapt to changing markets? Because we use ruling forecasts. Okay. Now we tried with some simple momentum strategy, like moving average and so on. The thing with these strategies is they are not able to deal with things like long time frames, because markets change drastically when big events occur, right? And big events occur quite, quite often, right? It could be some very important say, a presidential election, or it could be something to do with trade deals or a trade wars, also, for that matter, right? Pandemics, etc. Then you have, then we started off with AR models, auto regressive models, which are trying to capture what happens in the recent past with regard to returns, and trying to use that in order to make forecasts right. From there, we learned to evaluate model performance. So we learned how we can look at things like drawdowns. We looked at things such as hit rate, sharp ratio and others right to evaluate whether a model or a strategy is doing well. From there, we built on to using the ARIMA family of models right where you're extending the AR component now to start correcting even the errors that the model is bringing in. Right? So the MA part is essentially correcting the errors that are creeping in because of the auto regressive part, right? And, and so we work with ARIMA models. We learned how we can use the ACF and pacf plots to start to, you know, kind of find a suitable order for our ARIMA model, right? So we use the ACF for the MA part. We the we use the PSA for the AR part. And, more importantly, we used rolling forecasts, right? So, the point of rolling forecast is you only make a prediction for the next time period. You never make predictions far out right? So in terms of the approach, what we did is we started off with using weekly prices. We converted them to returns. We built an Arima, 212, we chose the order using ACF, P ACF, we used a rolling window to forecast the price. We converted the forecast into trading signals. And like I mentioned a little earlier, the trading signals here, we are directly using the prices on the price data itself. But there are people who make forecasts on prices and decide to trade options right, and then you decide, you know, you track strategy returns and you compare it to buy and hold. To buy and hold and so on. Now this is really part one of a two part series in terms of all the different things we'll do. Now, as far as part two goes, I have a few things that I'd like you guys to try out on on your own. This is like our self exercise is take the spy data that we had used and try to build a ruling Arima strategy there, just the way we worked with PayPal. Try it on Arima and compare it to AR one. See what performs better, so what could potentially explain the difference? Right? You can use the same rolling window rolling forecast approach. You can try multiple Arima orders. Also you can try 111212, all these different things. You can even try things like transaction costs, right? You can incorporate that somewhere. And the idea is that it will help you practice how to compare performances, how to select models, right? And, yeah, this is, this is the idea of what we do now. For those of you who are interested in getting into more details than the approach we took, right? You want a very, very formal treatment of the subject. There are some amazing resources here. So this is like one of the bibles of this topic. It's a book by Rui Saeed. It's called analysis of financial time series. It's a bit of a heavy read, but a beautiful book nonetheless. I personally am very fond of hindman's book, but I will warn you one thing, hindman's book is a pleasure to read. However, at least the last time I checked the codes in it are R and secondly, he has not written it for financial time series. He has just written a book on forecasting for any time series right now. The thing about time series, it is not the sole preserve of financial markets, because these kind of series are observed everywhere you see. So people track metrics on, say, a LinkedIn. People track time series on Facebook or, say, people in climate sciences and studies who are tracking sea levels over time, who are tracking temperatures over time. In the in the field of medicine, people track the weight of newborns over time, heights. For people who's whose sugar levels you're observing, you will look at those things over time. So the point being any variable observed over time, there is a time series, and these time series techniques can be applied on any variable that you observe over time, right? So that is something I forgot to mention at the beginning of this lecture. Obviously, our focus is only on financial time series, but as as a as a subject that extends far beyond the borders of trading, right? Okay, this Cochrane book is a short one, and it's also quite nice. It's called time series for macro, econ and finance. It's quite good. Even the Campbell book is pretty good. Campbell McKinley and low the econometrics of financial markets. So these are some of the good books. There's also a contra course on financial time series, which is, again within quantity, which also kind of. Touches upon this topic. Okay, so I think that's pretty much all the things I wanted to talk about with regard to today's lecture. Let me take a look at any more questions. So menakas, what type of modules are used in quants? Or are they you? So Arima is used in the field of quants, quant trading. So these days, you know, there are so many different libraries that keep coming up that people use different ones. Okay, there are some firms that have in house libraries that they have created, and that's what they use, okay? Ragavidras, Arima, forecast can also be fed into reinforcement or neural networks. Yes, there are some people who have tried those kind of things too, mixing Arima along with some, you know, machine learning or deep learning components to it. Yep, I think that's pretty much it with regard to all the things I wanted to cover. So thank you, folks. Thanks a lot for your time, and I will see you guys in a few weeks for the second installment, where we will advance all the things we've learned here to do, even things like volatility modeling, using our data to make forecasts on wall, as well as extend all the things we learned with regard to Ariba, okay, yep, that's it. Thank you very much. And have a good evening. Goodbye. You.

