Speaker 1  0:20  
To begin. So this session is on execution right, the second part so MMT 01, was the first part of the execution strategies, where we discuss the different type of orders and how they interact with the order book. This lecture I'll give in this lecture, I'll give you a flow chart, a basically a process flow of how to think about executing strategies all right. So once you have a strategy, how do you figure out how to place the order, where to place the order? What are the things that you should keep in mind right now? This is my second last lecture, fortunately or unfortunately. So tomorrow would be my last lecture. So what I usually do is, and tomorrow is a jam packed session. So, you know, I will not get this time again with you guys this lecture. What I'll do is, it's, it's sort of, it's not a hands on session, so it's somewhat theory. And you know, I just wanted to give you flavors of what, all things, you know, what are the tricks of the trade while thinking about execution? So I'll try to finish this lecture way before time, like, you know, 2025 minutes, or maybe half an hour before time. And I will use that half an hour to answer any questions that were unanswered during the lecture, during my previous lectures, if you have any questions about trading in general, right? So I usually keep this lecture at least around 2530 minutes free, so that we can discuss any any doubts that you have, because tomorrow, you know, I might not get this

Unknown Speaker  2:18  
luxury. All right. Okay.

Speaker 1  2:23  
So then let's define the problem statement of the lecture. Right? We have an automated system for execution, and we want to execute our strategy either buy or sell a particular stock or multiple stocks within a given time frame, and we have to take advantages of real time market movement. All right? So in other words, what I'll do is

Speaker 1  3:01  
say this is the problem that he will solve. Say you are at a trading desk, the client calls you at 10am right and says that he wants to buy 30,000 shares of Microsoft through your system, right, or through our system at the best possible price. So the objective is to buy 30,000 shares in five hours by 3pm now say the stock at 10 o'clock, when he calls the bid, and the ask is around 920 bid, 920 1.3 How do you think you should approach this problem? So you don't know whether the stock will go up or down right now, we don't care about the strategy, right? If we want to, we just want to buy. We don't know whether the next five minutes, 10 minutes, one hour, whether the stock will go up or down. It can go up, it can go down, right? But would you straight away fire an order for 30,000 shares at whatever best possible price, or, you know, UK, or would you just, you know, sit at the best bid. How do we figure this out? Right? Any, any so people are saying, okay, maybe we can use ATR. That's true. That's that's one way to go about it, absolutely, if you have the historical data. But you have to be so ATR, it might not, it might not cross the ATR, right? So VWAP is definitely one. Absolutely VWAP is one. You know, what is the volume weighted average price per minute, per two minutes, for five minutes.

Unknown Speaker  4:41  
Now, so

Speaker 1  4:45  
it's okay. What? And you know, I want you guys to think about this. It's not only the price. What? What quantity will you place? How would you think about the quantity? Right. The client wants you to buy 30,000 shares. Would you straight away buy 30,000 shares in one go? How would you slice it? Right? Maybe you are buying 1000 every minute, or 2000 every minute. Right? How will you slide so all these things right, where to place the order? How you know, how far away from the bid should you be right? All these things matter when you are executing your strategy, make sense? So you know this lecture I will tell you about the different things that we have to make sure that you know our system can handle, right? So what are the things that we should think and what are the different scenarios that our system should handle when we are executing strategies make sense? Okay? I will be using pegging and discretion heavily in this lecture. Do you want me to go again. You know, do you want me to revise this again? Or are you guys fine? Should I skip the revision everybody is comfortable with pegging and discretion, or should I just go through it again. I almost know the answer to this question. Yeah, there is, you know, in my I think I have gone through 5055, batches. None of the batches I've ever said, Don't repeat. We know it. And I know I totally get that. You know, you guys are also busy, so I totally get that. Okay, don't worry, I'll do it. Okay, okay, let me just quickly revise. So if this is the order book, right, these are the beds, the level one. These are the bit. This is the ask. Say you are pegging your order at the best bid, one tick size ahead the best bid, right? What will you do? You will place it so one text size above the bid, because the best bid is at 100, you will fire your order at 100.05 right? If the bed, bed moves 200.1 then you will move 200.05 and so on. All right.

Speaker 1  7:35  
Say you want to peg now. It's not necessary that you peg at level one. You can peg it at any level. So say you are pegging it at level two. Level two, the price is 99.5 so you will peg it at 99.55 All right. You will place your order at 99.55 and so on, right? So everybody is clear about pegging whatever level you decide to peg at, Peg at you will be you will place your order one text size above that level so that you maintain your price priority over that level. Should I go through discretion again? I'll just, I don't think I need to ask this question. I'll just go through discretion orders again, because I'll use them. So what you can so Okay, in discretion, if this is the bid ask, if this is the bid ask, then you can so you place your order at say, 100 with a discretion range of 10 cents. Now what does this discretion range mean? This simply means that if there's an Ask opposite side order at within your discretion range, your order will be your code will automatically modify the price, still 100.1 if there's a case of getting a trade at that price right. So whatever the discretion range is, still that discretion range your code can modify the order without figuring, without really caring about what the fair price is. Now what is I discussed the advantages. The advantage was of expected value. If you are at 100, if you're placing your order at 100, and you know the fair price is, say 100.25 the probability of getting a fill at 100 is, say 50% and you get a trade at 100, so your expected value is 12.5 cents. However, if you get a if there's an opportunity to get a trade at 100. Point one, when the fair price is 100.25 you can immediately see that you know the expected value increases. So getting a trade at 100.1 is better than just waiting at 100. And by the way, if you guys, you know, just to refresh your memories, the probability of you know of so you can, you know, for each level, you could calculate the probability of getting a fill, and that is how you get the expected value. So say, level one, the probability was point five, one, and the gains are point two, five, then this would be the expected value.

Unknown Speaker  10:49  
Make sense? Should I move on? So now what we'll do is,

Speaker 1  10:59  
so this was the question, right? And in all the in this lecture, this is the central question that we'll always try to answer. So the first thing is, okay, what is the price? Right? The first is, what is the price? And then we'll decide where to place the order. Right now, there are different methods, as you said, you could use ATR, you could use VWAP, you could use some momentum indicator, or any any other indicator, to figure out, you know, what is the best what is a better price to buy at VWAP is a very commonly metric that is used. So I'll just use VWAP here. So what is VWAP, volume, weighted average price? The simple thing would be, you calculate the VWAP for every say, one minute, two minutes. Here, I've calculated it for 15 minutes, right? So you can calculate

Unknown Speaker  12:08  
the VWAP. So for every

Speaker 1  12:13  
tech, you would know what is every trade, you would know what is the quantity traded, and you would know what is the price. So you can calculate this VWAP right here. I'm just aggregating the average trade price and the volume every 15 minutes. You can do it every minute. You can do it every second, every tick. That's that's fine. So whenever. So we can calculate this weave up, right? How do we calculate this? I'll just quickly tell you, for example, say the volume weighted average hourly price was 920 till 10am and the number of share traded at that price in the market was 50,000 so we just multiply the price into the volume for each hour, right for each hour we do that, sum this up. Sum this up the price into volume. So this is the cumulative price into volume. I have the total volume with me, and then divide the cumulative price into volume by the total volume. Right? Question isn't the price used for revamp average of high, low and close? So that is when you have the you don't have, you know intraday data, if you have tick by tick data or second by second data, then you can you easily, you know what price the stock has traded at and how much quantity, right? If you have, like, every five minute candle, then you can take the High, Low, Close average, right? That's, that's definitely you can do that depending upon what data, if you have take by trade data, then you would have the price for the trade price for every

Unknown Speaker  14:02  
every trade. When I have to calculate my VWAP, I use

Unknown Speaker  14:10  
tick bite, yes, all right,

Speaker 1  14:13  
okay, so once you have this VWAP, now say you bought the share at 925, right? All the 30,000 shares, you bought them at 920, $5 now, is it a good buy or a bad buy? So what so you know? You tell your client at 3pm that you know you, your order has been fulfilled. We've traded we bought this stock at 925 one of the easiest metrics that the client might use is VWAP. So say the VWAP is around 927 then you know, the client knows that you've done a great job, right? The daily VWAP was 927 so. Or the Viva for that particular day, you got the average of 925, so that's great, right now, how do you ensure that you know you you're always better than the Viva? So the the question that you you might have to answer is this is So the blue line is the continuous bids, and the red line are the continuous asks. Right now, how do you where do you place your order? Do you place it somewhere in between? Do you place it at this blue line below the blue line, this is the question right when you are executing, you know, the real time price movements, right? But how do you decide with these price movements? How do you decide where to place my order? So one thing is, you know, you for each time frame you have this weave app. So this is one metric that you can use. You have to be below this green line. If you're always below the green line, you at the end of the day, you would be better than the market, right?

Speaker 1  16:27  
So now, if this is, if this green line is your weave app, you know, where do you do? Place it around this green line, below the blue line, how do you do it? And in doing this, you know this probability of getting a fill is extremely important, right. So if you have the historical data of probability of getting a fill right, then you can easily figure out where to place your order, right? And obviously, if the blue, if the green line is above the red line, then you'll, this is the region where you you know, if you have a lot of remaining share, this is the region when you know, you'll try to quickly grab shares, right? Because the VWAP is, you know, above the red line here, so it's above the hour, so you can easily buy, but when it's around the blue line, and you know the gain in probability where to place your order, you know the probability of fill can help you out wherever the maximum probability expected value is, that is where You will place your bid. Does that make sense? Any questions?

Speaker 1  17:53  
There's a question instead of VWAP, can we use Bollinger Bands? Absolutely, you can do that, but you have to also make sure that you know you get those 30,000 shares right. So you won't be, I mean, you will not be two standard deviations away, right, because getting a fill over there would be less likely. So you can use your own metric. But the point is, once you have the price, your probability of fill tells you where to place the order.

Speaker 1  18:31  
Okay, couple of questions, the highest probability of getting a fill will always be at level one or more than that, absolutely, but the expected value is not necessarily to be highest there. The probability is definitely. So this is the chart right. The probability is high, but you know, the gains are also lower at the highest level. So it's about the expected value. Make sense? Yeah. A VWAP does not predict. In this case, VWAP won't try. We are not trying to predict the future through viva. It's a metric. It's a very commonly used metric in the industry to figure out whether you've taken a good trade or a bad trade. So I'm just used VWAP and as a as a as a metric, as a guide of you know how to place your orders. So we if you are using VWAP, excuse me, if you're using VWAP, then all I'm trying to tell you is that then you can sort of place your orders below this VWAP line based on the probability of fill.

Speaker 1  19:47  
Question, where on the blue line will we choose? This blue line is ever evolving, right, this blue line is the best bid. Right. This blue line is the best bid for every time frame. It right? So all I'm saying is, if the green line is around this blue line, then you have so the first thing is you have to be below the green line. How much below would be determined by your expected value. So if you have this probability of getting a fill, and you obviously know the gains through your through your green line, right? So you can assume that this is your fair price, then you know where to place the order. Does that make sense?

Speaker 1  20:37  
Is this graph clear? So this red line is the best ask at every time frame. This blue line is the best bid, and this green line is the VWAP. And I'm just trying to tell you that you can assume this green line to be the fair price, and then calculate the gains according to this fair price, and then see where your expected value is the highest question buy order gets a fill. If ask is less than or equal, then we could place 10 bit 10 cents above the ask to get a fill, absolutely. If you are if the VWAP is above the ask, then you can get all your trades at the red line.

Speaker 1  21:19  
Question. When our client calls that, then we don't have the Viva for the whole day. No, this, this VWAP is historical. This VWAP is historical. So till 1015 This is the VWAP. Till 1030 This is the VWAP. And so on, right. So it's the VWAP is still that point. So,

Speaker 1  21:46  
all right, there's a question on anchored VWAP. I can take that offline. All right,

Speaker 1  21:55  
there's a question, can we apply this VWAP to future? So people do apply it to future than cash options. I'm not very sure. I mean, I'll, you know, I'll have to, I mean, I don't apply this in option, but definitely on futures. All right, should I move on?

Speaker 1  22:22  
Okay, so now, so I have told you about the price. Now, volume, best. How would you figure out if you have to buy 30,000 shares, right? You also have to think about the quantity, right? How much quantity should I place in my each order, right? And so for this, if you have historical data about the volume, right? For example, you know when the market there's a huge volume spike when the market opens, right till 10. From 915 till 10 o'clock, there's a lot of volume in the market. Right then the market sort of dies down. 1030, 11. These are, you know, somewhat peaceful time periods. But then again, you know, when the European market open that, depending upon daylight saving 1230 or 130 then the activity comes again. And then at 230 you know, quarter to three, one hour or 45 minutes before the markets are closing, then also the volume spikes. So if you know that, what is the volume that gets traded? Say, every 10 minutes, every 15 minutes, and when are these volume spikes? Right? Then you know how much volume you can try to enter for each rate. So if there's a lot of volume getting traded, then you know you can to try to capture that those volume you can keep your volume, quantity size, higher. And you know, in dull periods, you know you can sort of manage your quantity accordingly, right? So you even in dull periods between, say, 1112 even if you don't get a lot of traits, that's fine, because you know the volume will spike towards the end, right? But if in the beginning or towards the end, you know your volume is less, then you need to up your quantity traded, right? There's a question, any instances of having the ask price less than the bid? No, the market cannot sustain that. The ask price can never be less than the bid, alright? Also, if we wrap at 3pm is less than 11am how to deal at that time. I completely understand that. And that is so, you know, still, if you are, if you are always below the VWAP, you know, if you're trading is below the VWAP, you know, on a on an app. Average, your your final average traded price will be lower than the VWAP of the whole day, right? So it's, it's quite possible that the market, you know, the the market, suddenly falls and there's a huge volume spike. Now, these are outliers, of course, but on an average, this methodology will give you a better trading price question. If the client wants to buy the stock, I've never done a back test, then it becomes very difficult. So all these, you know, Goldman, Sachs, JP, Morgan, all they have, like, you know, data is never a problem for these guys, you know, they have, I mean, they have specific algorithms for specific stocks also, right? I mean, based on the volume distribution on those particular stocks. So data is never a problem. Question, VWAP on tech chart, or calculating? Man, no, no, no, you are calculating VWAP through, through the price, through your code. Nothing is done manually or through charts. Everything through code. Should we include the VWAP of the last day as well? No, not really, because the client is interested in the VWAP of that particular day when he was trading. All right, so I was saying intelligent volume distribution is important. If you have an understanding of when, you know when there's a volume spike, then you can change your quantity accordingly. And I will give you my for, for volume, I will give you my thumb rules, right for each of these things, I'll give you my thumb rules of how I when I have to take a trade based on the fair price, how do I place my orders? All right? Any any questions so far that I've not answered now. So what you can do is see pegging and discretion. You can look them at, like two buttons right, or two knobs. How aggressive you want to be. If you want to be very aggressive, then you will peg at the level one. You will have a higher discretion range. If you want to be defensive, you will peg at level two, level three, with a lower discretion range. So the these two give you a way to be either extremely aggressive or defensive when you're placing the order Right. Okay.

Speaker 1  27:59  
So what you can do is you can, and this is what I used to do. Still do blend. I blend pegging and discretion, right? So if I'm making markets, or I want to, you know, slowly build my inventory of a particular stock, I usually blend pegging orders with discretion orders now, but you have to be very careful with these, because they can actually, you know, make your algorithm by the particular asset at very aggressively. Let me just give you an example. Say this is the order book. Your best bid as at 100 your best ask is that 100.5 you peg your buy limit order at best bid plus 10 cents, right? With a discretion range of 20 cents. So best bid is at 100 discretion range is 20 sets. Now I'll just cover a couple of cases of what can happen.

Unknown Speaker  29:14  
Now,

Speaker 1  29:20  
because the best bid was at 100 you place your order at 100.1 because you're pegging at best bid plus 10 cents, and your discretion range is 20 cents, so you are at 100.1 now because of your pegging, now your code knows that if there's a ask at 100.3 you can modify right so right now you will just use your pegging. You sit right here. If a sell order comes at 100.3 then obviously you will use your discretion range, and you will modify your order from 100 point. One, 200.3 and you it will get executed. Does this make sense? Yes or no.

Speaker 1  30:14  
Does this make sense? Okay? Now case two, say a new buy order comes at 100.2 right? What will happen if you are using pegging plus discretion?

Unknown Speaker  30:30  
What happens is you are at 100.1 best bid comes at 100.2

Speaker 1  30:41  
you will because you are pegging at the best bit plus 10 cents. Automatically, your code gets mod. It modifies your current order from 100.1 200.3 because 10 cents better than the best bit, as soon as it does it 200.3 as soon as it does it. Now this 100.5 is within your discretion range, so a discretion range will be used, and you will immediately fire an order from 100.3 to 100.5 right.

Speaker 1  31:23  
Ah, now there's a, you know, there's a very important check whenever you are placing an order. You know, this sounds very simple, very obvious, but believe me, you know, people miss this whenever you are placing your order, the absolute last check should be, is your price. Buy price should never be above the fair price, and sell price should never be below the fair price. Because if you are using pegging and discretion, it's quite possible that you, you know you, you become extremely aggressive in your trade. So before placing the order, there's a must, there's a check that you must always do. Is your price more than the fair price? Make sense? Your discretion range was of 20 cents. So that is why, when you were at 100.3 it immediately traded at 100.5

Speaker 1  32:35  
how to a certain fair price? So again, as I said, VWAP is one way to figure out the fair price. So VWAP is one. There are other methods too, right? So weighted average depth from the book, right in my MMT, 01, I told you how you know the demand and supply is changing. So if you've gone through the article, that article tells you that you know a fair price could be the weighted average of the depth on both sides. Right is the discretion order available? No this. This sits with your code or with your broker, right there now, so you can the same thing can be done on the sell side, right, the same thing can be done on the sell side. So I'll just quickly go through this. You are at 100 point the best ask is at 100.5 you are pegging your cell limit order at best. Task minus 10 cents, with a discretion range of 20 cents, so you place your order at 100.4

Unknown Speaker  33:49  
again, case one, if a buy order comes at 100.2 you will automatically use your discretion range hit it at 100.2

Speaker 1  34:01  
that was case one. Case two is if a new sell order comes at 100.3 you place your order at 100.2 and then use your discretion. Make sense?

Speaker 1  34:19  
Okay, there's a question everyone is using. If everyone uses VWAP, then you know, what is our edge? Your edge might be an execution, right? How you are. So, you know, fair price is never calculated by only one method, right? There are different VWAP is one weight of order books. And then, obviously you have to create your own ideas. Right? When you are historically testing, you have to see where did your trade go wrong? And then you create your new ideas. You know this, I'm telling you, nobody in their right mind will reveal a winning strategy. All I can tell you is the process to figure out. Out a new strategy, right? So if you think that you know what I'm telling you a strategy that will make money, I'm not doing that. And I'll be very honest with you, nobody in their right mind will do it. I'll also not do it right, but I can definitely tell you the process right, make sense based on pegging and discretion, how to ensure if it's near the fair price. So obviously, when you are firing your order at, say, 100 or whatever, you have to make sure that you're fair, that if you're placing a sell order, then your final price of your order is not below the fair price, right? So for every order that you send to the market, this should be the last check, right?

Speaker 1  35:50  
Okay, there was a question, would the would this gain in probability change with time it can so you know your probability if you slice your see, you know, and it's the same thing that I tell my colleagues. Also, the data is right there in front of everybody, right the way you slice the data can give you very powerful insights. So, you know, one of the students is asking me, nothing would slicing the data by time change the probability fill absolutely does that. I've seen this multiple times. Between 915 and 10, the probability of fills or level one or level two would be way different from, you know, from time between 11 and 12. So the way you slice the data will tell you great insights. All right, do I calculate fair price at every take? That is exactly what I do.

Unknown Speaker  36:47  
Yes, you have to.

Speaker 1  36:52  
Why do I need to keep reducing your sell price you are you don't need to, but your code will automatically do if you're using pegging and discretion, if you're blending pegging and discretion, or code will automatically do that. How did I establish the probability of fill? That was an MMT, 01, my friend. You know I so again, if you if you have this doubt, I'll take this probably at the end of the lecture, all or offline, but I was, I discussed this intensively in my MMT 01 lecture. Okay. Now the issue, and there was a question on manipulating and spoofing. And let me tell you, I'll give you an example of what what might happen in the markets. Whenever you place a trade, you are causing impact, right? Whenever you sorry, whenever you place an order in the market, you are causing an impact. And if your order is close to the best bid, best ask, you are creating impact no matter you know, if the if the quantity is low, then obviously the impact is lower. If the quantity is higher, the impact is higher. Now there might be people who would be manipulating the markets, and we need to be careful

Unknown Speaker  38:26  
about such. So let me just give you an example of how

Speaker 2  38:34  
people can manipulate you or any, any, anyone in the markets

Speaker 1  38:47  
say this is the best bid. 100 and 101 is the best ask. Say the fair price is 100.05 if you place an order at 101 you have a so market order will hit Buy. Market order will hit at 101 so you will lose 50 cents. Your strategy is very simple. You are pegging your order at best bid plus 10 cents right now. So you place your order at 100.1 great. The ask is still 101 now, say there's another player who has pegged his order at five cents above the best bid. If there's another player who has pegged his order at five cents above the best bid, suddenly there's a price war, right? The second player order comes at 100.15 we are at best bid plus 10 cents. So you know, as soon as there's an order at 100.15 we move our order to 100.25 great. Now, people might there might be. Some gorilla algorithm that want to manipulate you, right? What they'll do is they are observing this behavior, so they'll try to bait you. How would they do that? If your pegging logic is only to be, say, five cents better than the best bet, right? So say, you know, this is the example that I'm giving. Say your pegging logic is five cents better than the to be five cents better than the best bet. So you fire an order at 100.05 for some 1000 quantity. Now this gorilla algorithm, the algorithm that wants to bait you, is it will fire an order for 100.2 with smaller quantity, right? 100.2 with only 10 shares, if you only have a pegging logic that just increases your price to 100.2 to five cents better than the best bet, you will move your quantity from 100.05 200.25 now what the gorilla bot will do is it will just try to test you out with very small quantity, 100 fire and order at 100.8 with one share quantity. If you don't have these checks that you know your price should not be better than the fair price, or you don't have quantity checks, you will simply fire an order for 100.85 as soon as you see, okay, you know the best bid is 100.8 let me just put it at 100.85 right? So if you're if this bid moves, you will immediately. If you don't have any checks, you'll fire an order at 100.85 4000, quantity. Now what people will do is that same bot will fire a sell order for 100.85 with with 1000 shares. What happened? You got a buy at 100.85 somebody else gets us this gorilla bot gets a sell at 100.85 the market moves back right. The market comes to its original price. So you bought it at 100.85 the gorilla bot has sold it at 100.85 the gorilla go bought will just fire a buy order at 100.6 or 100.5 with 1000 quantities to square off his position, and he'll lock in a profit of whatever 3035 cents only because, you know, it sort of baited you to peg your order at higher prices. So this is one way to manipulate orders, right? So we have to be very careful. Another way would be, if you are calculating the fair price by taking the average bids or the average sales, you know, they'll place very huge amount of orders. I'd say the buy side, buy side, and you will think that, you know what, okay, there might be a buyer. You know, there's huge demand, so it's quite possible that the stock might go up. And then, you know, because there's a huge buyer at some you know, quantity below the best bid. You might want to this, you know, this probability of fill that you are calculating might tell you that, you know what. Okay, this, there's an order, huge order in front of you, so let me just peg it in front of it, and then you know, it will make you go, increase your price again, again. And then, you know, immediately, the bot removes that big order and makes you buy at a higher price. And these are not theoretical discussions. There's a person, navender Sarao, hound of hounds law, nicknamed this guy, you know, he was actually, he made $40 million from his parents, you know, basement by spoofing, manipulating orders, You know, placing 1000s of orders and then quickly canceling them or changing them, creating artificial demands or supplies for other traders, right? And he was convicted, sent to jail. So, you know, the so people ask me nothing, what is the criteria Right? Which order can be deemed as manipulative. Any order that you send in the markets that you don't have an intention to buy

Unknown Speaker  44:48  
is manipulation, right? So.

Speaker 1  45:00  
Please, don't, you know you have to safeguard yourself from such activities. And you know, as in this lecture, I'll tell you how you know, I'll give you, you know my thumb rules. So one thumb rule, as I said, was, you know, always check, you know your fair price, don't never send an order beyond the paper. Then I'll give you some other thumb rules that you can follow to avoid getting, you know, manipulated by such bot. So if, if you know, if there's a sudden spike or volume, maybe you know, like five times more than the average depth in the book. You know, you know, there's something not right. So it's, it's, and I always tell this to my colleagues, it's better to sit outside of the market then, you know, then being manipulated. It's, I would rather not make 10 cents. But you know, in the you know, as opposed to it's, it's better just sitting out, not making that extra 10 cents than losing 2030, cents, right? Or even more. So this is a defensive approach. And as the lecture goes on, I will give you my thumb rules of, you know, of how you can prevent yourself from getting manipulated. All right, how do these big institutions manipulate without getting caught? Well, Jane Street did get caught, so they are now under severe surveillance and whatnot. So it's not that they don't get caught. This guy also get got caught. You know, one of my juniors from college, unfortunately, he got caught in insider trading. So things happen. And, you know, believe me, it's, you know, there is no dearth of strategies that you can deploy and make money, right, quick money. You know, may doing things illegal. It it always have a it always has a chance of getting caught. And, you know, I mean, it's up to you, I, I there's no point of doing all this. You just have to make sure that you know you should know all these things to safeguard yourself, right? Um, right? Can I show a live order book so the markets are closed? If we had a lecture during the market, I would have shown you a real order book. All right. Do I accommodate trading time in my strategies? I do. I do. I

Speaker 1  47:45  
if the probability of failure keeps on changing continuously, how do we execute our orders? You keep on modifying your orders. So for a snapshot, you know the probability, and you will fire your order for that snapshot. Then it changes, then the market changes, and then again you will evaluate, and you will figure out whether your order needs to get modified or not. Make sense, since gorilla bots actually buy or sell, why is it illegal? Oh, because the order that it placed here 100.8 with one share, this was the order that it did not want to play. It wanted to manipulate. So it's difficult proving this. I understand that. But again, you know, if, if the government is after you, they can, they can really create havoc, right? There's a question on, how does it take data. We can, we can discuss that, probably at end of the lecture

Unknown Speaker  48:43  
or offline.

Speaker 1  48:53  
Okay, in a low liquidity option, if I put a buy order when nobody sells, I place a sell order near the market and cancel it quickly. Could SEBI detect that? Could the officials, the regulators, detect that? Believe me, if they want to, they can. And let me tell you, I know, you know, somebody very close to me was telling me that, you know the regulator is sending a lot of emails to people you know they wanted to, you know they wanted you to explain their trades. Now, why did you take this trade? And believe, you know, I also got this email, and I had to explain 20 trades of mine. That why, you know, why we took those trades? It was it was simple for us, because, you know, everything was algorithmic. And you know, we never, there was, there was nothing else to it. But there are lot of traders who are getting these emails. And, you know, I sort of asked around, and you know, the regulators are getting stuck, which is very good. And you know, this is, this is something that I really appreciate. This should happen, right? Manipulation. I'm telling you. I mean, I cannot show you the but I did get an email about asking my Trader, why did we trade that? Right? So, you know, I mean, it happens, and we were very clear, and obviously, you know, nothing happened. But when I asked around, a lot of

Unknown Speaker  50:20  
people who are getting these, these emails,

Speaker 1  50:24  
alright, so absolutely be aware. Don't, don't think that the regulator is just sitting and, you know, doing nothing. All right, let us move ahead. Is there a log of data that are not executed absolutely so, you know, in pick by pick

Speaker 1  50:47  
data, there would be so many orders that just don't get traded. So you'll see that. Okay, there are some questions that are not related to the lecture right now, I'll answer those questions at the end of the lecture, right? So I have that half an hour specifically kept for for these sort of questions, right? Okay,

Speaker 1  51:20  
okay, before I go forward, I wanted to make sure that you are clear with some of the terminology that I might use in this lecture. So I'll just quickly go through the terminology, right?

Unknown Speaker  51:39  
Okay, where did it go?

Speaker 1  51:51  
If this is the order book, say the best bidders at 100 the best ask is at 100.5

Unknown Speaker  52:03  
there's something called the same side depth till level one.

Speaker 1  52:10  
So same side depth till level one is 500 right. So same side depth for the buy side, till level one is 500 for the R side, it is 100. Same side, depth till level two is 750 so the cumulative sum of the quantity still that level for that site. So if I say same side, depth till Level Two for buy side is 750 then you know that. You know cumulatively level one quantity plus level two is 750 Now interestingly, safe trader one five, and order of size 200 at 100.1 now the same side, depth at the buy side till level one is 200 and because this is the only order at This level, we say that this order is alone. Now there are certain, you know, things that my strategy does if, if the order is alone, or the lot of orders. So this is an important terminology, and I will tell you how I look at this. It's very different if there's only one order at this price, or if there are 10 different orders at this price. So if there's only one order, we will say that you know this, this order is alone at level one. So I'll assume that one. We always assume one order would be of a single trader. We have no other way to split it. So say the two cases 1001, say a buy order comes in at 100.1, for five quantity, and say the order is alone. Case two is at 1001, the there's a single buy order comes at 100 quantity. At this instant, this order was alone. But then again, you know, after every, say, 100 mics, or 200 mics or one mil, if orders are coming in same price, same quantity, then I would say that you know, from this point, the order is not alone, although the case is the same. Even in case two, there are 500 quantity at 100.1 in case one, there is 500 quantity one, Order at 100.1 but from an execution point of view, they are different. And I'll tell you how they are different, right? Make sense? Any, any question on this?

Unknown Speaker  54:57  
Okay, okay.

Speaker 1  55:01  
A depth again, okay. Depth is, if I say the same side, depth for buy side till a particular level, say till level two, then I'm just adding the quantity on the buy side till that level so same side depth for the Ask side till level two would be 300 for level two, buy side, it is 750 500 plus 250 for our side, it is 100 plus 200 300 what is the same side depth for buy side till level five, it is 1650

Unknown Speaker  55:50  
makes sense.

Speaker 1  55:56  
Question here, if the book okay in this case, guys, please pay attention.

Unknown Speaker  56:05  
There's a question here that I need to answer.

Speaker 1  56:13  
So one of our friends is asking me, Nathan, this is the case, right case to say this is the case right? Is this second order at level one or level two?

Speaker 1  56:37  
This is my so I think this is what our friend is asking, Is this order

Unknown Speaker  56:44  
at level one or level 200.1? Is at level one or level two? Guys?

Speaker 1  56:59  
So this is at 100.1 right? So it is at level one. It is not at level two, because level is determined by the price, right, not by the priority. The this has second priority to the first order because it came in later, but in the order book, it is still at level one, because the price of level one is 100.1 make sense, yes or no. So you know people who were saying that you know nothing is 100.1 at level one or level two, the answer is level one,

Unknown Speaker  57:42  
right, clear.

Unknown Speaker  57:51  
So this is the best bid.

Unknown Speaker  57:55  
Any questions, should I move on? This is clear. I

Unknown Speaker  58:04  
guys, any questions, should I move on?

Speaker 1  58:11  
The person who asked me, what is the level? Is it clear that 100.1 this order is at first level? Only question, Can the same side depth be determined to a certain how the price might move, absolutely right. This is the demand. This is the supply. So same side if the same side depth. So this is what I did in my MMT 01, lecture, right? How is the demand changing with respect to the price? Right? How is alone used in algorithms? I'll tell you that. I'll tell you that. I'll absolutely tell you that. So, you know, just, just a small hint, if this is the case, right? A lot of orders are there at 100.1 and say, you, you know you're also there. Say this fifth order was yours, and you are here. And after some time, you know all these four orders moved back. Say they moved to 100, and now you are alone. So if you are earlier, so you know, a check in your algorithm could be if you were not alone before, but now you at the same price you are alone, then maybe you know market knows something that you don't know. So maybe you need to move down a bit, right? So this is how I use alone. If you were not at the same price, if you were not alone before, when you entered, you were not alone. But now, you know, people have moved back. Maybe there's something that you don't know. So you also need to move back.

Speaker 1  59:49  
Why does the depth volume matters, other than the probability of fill or because supply, because of supply and demand. If there's a lot of demand here, it might tell you that the you know. If, if there's more demand than the supply, it might tell you that the price will go up. Make sense? Any questions? Or should I move on?

Speaker 1  1:00:21  
What does this mean? One trader per order at so here I'm saying if there is only one order or trader, so I assume that if there's only a single order at 100.1 then it's a, you know, I would assume that there's a single trader here it's a loan. So here it's alone, right? If there's one order at 100.1 for quantity 200 this, this order is alone at level one. However, in a similar case, if there are 500 if there's 500 quantity at 100.1 and this was how the quantity built at level one, then this, these orders are now not alone. Make sense? Does a loan typically happen with illiquid trading assets? No, not necessarily. You can if you know sometimes you are, if the if this is the bid, ask and you improve the bid, if you are pegging, so you're pegging, if you're pegging at the best level, then more or less you're always alone at that level, right? When you at least when you place the order, a question, what if they moved up? How to Tell Oh, you have tick by tick information, right? So you would obviously know how many? How many? How are people placed around you? Because you are creating your own order books through tick by tick information, right? So you always know what is your priority with respect to other orders and whatnot.

Speaker 1  1:02:01  
So you know when you have the if you have so the question is, how do you know if you are the only person here? Because if you have tick by tick information, you would know, and you're creating your own order books, you would know at this level, what is the quantity? If that quantity is only through your order, then you know you're alone, right? If the other order IDs have moved back, then you know you're alone. Make sense? Is it always true that if the bid quantity is greater than the Ask quantity, that implies greater demand? As I said, it's also the slope of the curve, right? So again, this is from MMT, 01, I share those articles, right, so that all those three articles actually discuss this, right? How to determine whether the demand is higher or not? Can we use a loan to figure out if somebody is pegging or not? Absolutely? You can. You can do that. So if again and again, there's a particular order ID that is creating level then, you know it's pegging, right?

Unknown Speaker  1:03:14  
Okay. Do we have networks like ECN? No, I don't think we have that in India.

Speaker 1  1:03:28  
If I'm going to bid 10 cents above the best bid, at some point, I will be alone, right? Absolutely. So that's what I'm saying. If, if you're creating a level, and then you are alone, that's fine. But say you created a level, you were alone, but then you know, other people followed, and your order is not alone, but now they've moved back. Then you know, this movement of pushing the price down can tell you something that you know maybe you also want to come down. All right. Order, if the order ID is the same, that means the same person is is moving his order. So when you modify your order, the order ID remains the same. Does that make sense? So if I you know, people are just getting confused about this, let me see if I can show you.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:29  
Okay, where did it go? Okay,

Unknown Speaker  1:04:33  
so I'll just show you

Unknown Speaker  1:04:36  
an order book, right? Just give me a minute.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:49  
So let me see if I can show you the text.

Unknown Speaker  1:04:58  
Just give me a minute.

Speaker 1  1:05:07  
So these are the ticks, right? So sit this order so you know, this is the time received. M is for modify. This would be the, this would be the price. S is for sale. B is for buy and whatnot. So you can, you know, you can sort of see that. So if I look at this,

Unknown Speaker  1:05:42  
so this order, right? This order would be moving again and again. Let me just show it to you here. Wait a minute. So let

Unknown Speaker  1:06:09  
to see how this

Unknown Speaker  1:06:17  
this is, I don't know why it's, it's a bit slow,

Speaker 1  1:06:20  
but I mean, so this is the order ID, and you know, if you will see that this order ID is moving again and again, right? So, so

Unknown Speaker  1:06:35  
maybe this is the order ID,

Speaker 1  1:06:40  
yeah, so see how many so the it's modifying again and again the price is getting either the price. So this, it was at 970, 7.25 then it came at 970, 7.359 77.2 so this order ID is again and again modifying and at different prices, right? The right. So this is what modification, and these are the trades, right? So if you have tick by tick information, then obviously you know you can figure out what is happening, whether you are alone or not, all right?

Speaker 1  1:07:22  
Uh, okay. Question. Can I explain? How do we know whether we are alone? In simple terms, if we are creating our order book, then we would know for each level what is the quantity, right? If we know, what is the quantity, and if we if at that particular level, there's only the quantity is exactly equal to our order, then we know there's nobody else. Does that make sense? So if I, if my, if I ordered, if I fired an order for 500 quantity at 100.1 and I'm maintaining the order book, and this is the order book, then obviously I know that there's nobody else. If somebody else comes, then maybe it will go to 600 700 so on. Now I know it's I'm not alone, because the quantity is more than what I fired. Make sense?

Speaker 1  1:08:20  
So question, so between your bids, do you do I need to check the order book status, absolutely. So I you know, so my algorithm will check whether I'm alone or not. And then, you know what? If I'm alone, then what do I have to do? If I'm not alone, then what do I have to do? So there's a lot of scenarios that are generated and I need, and this is what I'll do in this lecture, right? I'm trying to tell you the different scenarios and things that you have to keep in mind. So one would be, and again, I'll give you the whole process chart, so don't worry about it. All right. Okay.

Speaker 1  1:09:01  
Okay, there's one thing that I would discuss right now, and then I'll just give you a five minute break, and then I'll continue sometime. What happens is, so say you're the client. Gave you this order, right? 30,000 shares of Microsoft. Now you have to decide whether you can actually execute this order or not. Let me just go through some different scenarios. So as I said, these trading desks, right? Lehman Brothers, Goldman, Sachs, Morgan Stanley, these guys have their algorithms based on the stock also. So say. If they you have three algorithms, X, Y and Z, and you know their efficiency. Now, by efficiency, I mean how much volume are they trading with respect to the volume traded in the market. So how much volume is the algo trading with respect to volume traded in the market. So if algorithm why the efficiency is one person. This means if 1000 shares get traded in the market, this algorithm will trade 10 shares, so 1% of 1000, if you use algorithm Z, and 1000 shares get traded in the market, this z will trade 50 shares X will share 150 shares. So you know, my simple question to you would be,

Speaker 1  1:11:13  
in which algorithm Do you think that the pegging or the discretion will be higher in algorithm y or an algorithm x, in which algorithm Do you think the pegging and the discretion would be higher? So everybody understand that it would be an algorithm X, yeah. No, no, so, okay, one of friends is saying, why? No, why? Is not trading very aggressively, right? If 100 shares are getting traded, 15 shares are being traded by x, only one is being traded by y, this means y is very less aggressive. X is extremely aggressive, right? So X has a higher discretion or Peg, Right? So now

Speaker 1  1:12:11  
what happens is, say your client wants you to buy 10,000 shares of access bank. Access Bank is a bank traded in the Indian markets, and you know the client wants you to buy, say, 10,000 shares. And you know, based on historical data. Around, say, 180 1000 shares get traded, you know, based on historical data. So you also know that you know what, around 30,000 shares get traded per hour, or 500 shares per minute. Now, if your client says that you know what I want these shares and I want it as soon as possible, right? It gives you, say, two hours time to trade. Now you know. You know that you know your best algorithm has an efficiency of around 15% so if you use algorithm X based on experience or based on, you know, historical tests, simulations, you know that you know what algorithm X will trade around 15% it is a very high pegging, high discretion value, So it will trade around 15% of the market now. So you know that, you know 500 shares get traded. So 15, if you use algorithm X, you will use 500 into 15% so 75 shares in a minute, you have to trade 10,000 shares for the client. So how much time would you take? You will take 10,000 divided by 75 shares in a minute. So 133 minutes right for 10,000 shares. So this is the theory Tth is a theoretical time horizon that you need to exit. Execute your clients order. If your client says that you know what you need to do this in two hours, you will not take that order from the client, because you know the best algorithm of yours. Cannot do it in the time frame given by the

Unknown Speaker  1:14:21  
client. It's a theoretical

Unknown Speaker  1:14:25  
time horizon. Simply

Speaker 1  1:14:32  
means the time that you would take theoretically to execute this order. How is it calculated? You should know the percentage, market percentage of the algorithm that it will trade. So around 15% you know the volume that happens per minute. So minute volume, so is 500 per minute. So you know you. You would trade with 15% efficiency, so 75 shares in a minute, and then 10,000 divided by 500 divided by 15% so two hours makes sense. Question is this type of strategy only in HFT scenarios. So again, as I said in even in my first lecture, placing of orders matters when you care about that. One cent, two cents, three cents, per say, $100 traded. Otherwise it does not but you know, it doesn't hurt to learn all this. More aggressive, more the efficient. So efficiency, I think, is a misnomer. You should call it, you know, market percentage. What percentage of the market is your algorithm trading? Any questions? If not, what I'll do is so I'll just give you a break of 510 minutes. Question, are the other algos being idle? So you would, you would use the so you know, based on the client's need, if the client gave you two days to do it, you would use algorithm. Why? If we gave you five or six hours, you might use algorithm z, so it depends, right? So if you use algorithm X, the price would obviously be worse. If you use algorithm why the price would be better. So it's always time and price, right? So what I do is, I'll give you a break here, and then when I come back after the break, I'll give you a process flow chart to figure out how to build an execution algorithm. So it's 1718, I will reconvene at 525,

Unknown Speaker  1:16:57  
all right, 525, so.

Unknown Speaker  1:24:29  
Hello, can you hear

Unknown Speaker  1:24:32  
me, guys, can you hear me? Shall we reconvene?

Unknown Speaker  1:24:42  
All right, all right.

Speaker 1  1:24:51  
Okay, so is it clear? Should I start with the process? Okay, there's one question, can I just repeat the concept of different algorithm? And, oh, the the concept, so what I was discussing is that, you know, usually, trading desks would have different algorithms with different discretion parameters, pegging parameters, and they use those algorithms based on the client urgency and the liquidity in the of the stock that they want to trade in the market, right? So they would have, like, two, three, maybe, you know, a repertoire, or five, six, different algorithms with different parameters, different aggression values. And then, you know, you have to. And all I'm saying is that these desks choose the algorithm based on the which stock they want to trade and the urgency of the client. Okay, now let me what I'll do is now, let me just start with the process.

Unknown Speaker  1:26:01  
Right? I'll discuss this.

Speaker 1  1:26:05  
So now here comes the flow chart. And this will be, you know, this will just go on, increasing so, you know, just, just sit back. Sit back, relax. I will go on, you know, one by one. And, you know, the idea is, I will give you my thoughts around how we developed the algorithm, right? Or what does the algorithm do, right? So it's an I will not the best way to understand this. I will give you like, different things that you have to think about when developing it. Right. Okay, so let me just start.

Speaker 1  1:26:57  
Okay, just one quick question, do they charge differently based on algorithm. Absolutely, they do so, if the client has a very urgent need, then obviously the you know, you would charge higher for your services, right? Okay, now, this was the flow of the order in in

Unknown Speaker  1:27:18  
the exchange, right? Just give me a minute. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:27:26  
the exchange sends data to the market, to the sorry, to the market, adapted your market adapter converts that information to the strategy, to you know, to a language that your strategy can understand. Then your strategy places the order, and your order router, then, you know, connects with the exchange, and, you know, sends the order to the exchange and receives the acknowledgement and whatnot. Now, the first thing is, what are the triggers? When will your so the market is live for around six hours, right? Is your algorithm running every second? Every five minutes? What are the triggers for your algorithm, when is your algorithm actually processing information? So there are three main triggers that I use, either. So, you know, some people might say I want a time based trigger. I don't like that. I always, personally, I believe that time does not exist. But that is a different philosophy. I always work in tick space. Whenever there's a tick in the market, whenever the exchange sends some information to the market adapter, there's a tick right or order, that is the trigger for my algorithm. So I would my algorithm gets triggered at every tick. So if this was the tick, my algorithm will get triggered, right? For every such tick, my algorithm gets triggered all right? So on price level change, if the price level changes in the best bid or best ask, or, you know, depending upon the depth. So here I'm writing best bid. It could be even if the 10th level changes or the 15th level changes, then you might want to calculate your fair price or your VWAP again, if there's a trade in the market, or you have got a trade, then obviously you have to trigger your algorithm. If your order has been acknowledged, that okay, now it is live, then you might want to tell your algorithm, okay, now we have this live order. What? What do I want to do? So when you are. Building your strategy or execution, you need to have a trigger. You know execution strategy will be triggered on every price level, change, trade or acknowledgement make sense.

Speaker 1  1:30:22  
So I'll just give you an example. As soon as the market opens, my first check in my algorithm is if the market is stable or not. If the market is stable only, then I will start placing my orders. Now, stability check can be done by different methods. One check would be if there are at least five levels in the order book, so 915, as soon as the market opens, the order book is empty, right? And then, you know, text flow in, and the order book starts getting created. So I will not place my order until, unless there are at least five levels in the order book. This can be one check. Second check could be if the bid ask spread is not greater than 1% of the best bit, right? What are the what is the bid ask spread, if the bid and this ask have a huge spread, usually, I don't like to trade because, you know, it's difficult to determine the fair price of the bid ask is too wide. So these two could be checks right as soon as the order or, you know, some people have a time stability. So in one of my strategies, I don't take a trade before 917 right? So I'll just give the market two minutes to sort of get stable, right? So this could be the different checks for stability once the order book is stable, then I will check whether I need to place a pegging logic at five cents above the best bid. What is the Viva? What do I want to do? Whether you know discretion, you know. So I place an order. Say this is the best bid. I place an order at 100.055 cents above the best rate, if I want to, you know, if the requirement is to buy discretion is at 20 cents. And I'll give you my thumb rule for discretion range. And then, obviously the final check is that the buy price should never be above the fair price. And then I place the order right. I

Speaker 1  1:32:45  
a question, would HFT avoid trading stocks like MRF, which are illiquid? I won't say HFT firms will not trade that, but my firm does not. We don't trade in illiquid stocks. Alright? So every, every firm have their own philosophy strategies. We don't. And obviously, I mean, you know, we are just a small point in this, you know, drop in the ocean. There are multiple strategies that are running, all right, but I can only tell you about what we do, right? Okay, there's a question, some orders get executed before the market, before 915 that's the pre open session. So I'm only discussing after open session right from 915 so there's a pre open session, and the you know that happens very differently, so I'm not discussing that all right. So say step one, say we wanted to buy this was our example, right? Microsoft has called us. They want to buy 30,000 shares. Where did it go? So now, so we peg our order 10 point 100.05 live in the market says sell order comes at 100.2 sell order comes at 100.2 and we had our discretion range at 20 cents, we'll immediately modify our order 200.2

Speaker 1  1:34:31  
so we fire if the discretion order. So you know you don't want to again and again send the same order. So you will check whether the discretion order has been fired or not. If it has been fired, then obviously you will refrain from it. If it has not been fired, then you will fire it. You will modify your order from 100.05 to 100.2 and

Unknown Speaker  1:34:58  
gone. Right? Hopefully you take that trade.

Speaker 1  1:35:05  
There's a question. We don't have VWAP yet, when there's no stability. So how are we placing that? So again, VWAP was one check. So you know, as I said, you know one of our strategy that takes, starts taking a trade at 917, so I'm sure you know one of the fair price estimators would be V wrap. So that is why it does not open immediately, right? So again, it depends upon the strategy right.

Unknown Speaker  1:35:35  
Now comes in interesting question here. Say you sent an order

Speaker 1  1:35:46  
at 100.2 and either so there can be three cases, right? Either it gets completely traded, great. Then you need to think, Okay, if it gets completely traded, what do I need to do? Second is, if it gets partially filled. You fired an order for 1000 quantity only 500 gets filled, then what do you do? Or if it doesn't get filled at all, then what do you do? So these are the three scenarios, whenever you are firing an order, what what do you do if you don't get a trade, if you get a partial trade, or if you get a complete trade, right? So you need to build scenarios for these three things, right? Okay,

Speaker 1  1:36:40  
so now let me, let me take this case right, and I'll spend a fair share of my time on figuring out what to do in these scenarios. All right. So say this was the order book. Best bid is at 100 best ask is that 100.5 point five. Say the client had asked us to trade 100,000 shares, right? And we are firing peg plus discretion orders for 1000 quantity. So we are sliced it at 1000 quantities. So every time we enter the market, we fire an order for 1000 quantity, all right, now what do we do? Say you fired an order at 100 for 1000 quantity, and you get a partial fill at 100 for 400 shares, right? The question is, what do I do? Do I need to modify this order quantity, 2000 again? Do I cancel or do I just sit alone? Or do I modify this? Or do I, you know, do I increase the price or decrease the price? So, what? What is? What is it that I need to do once I've got the partial fit? Now, the one of the decision blocks for partial fills would be, if you know, there's something called a stub calculation, so you would do different things based on what does your stub calculation tell you? Now, what is this top calculation? Right?

Speaker 1  1:38:48  
Stop is basically, what is the minimum quantity at which I need to modify I need to replace my quantity? Right at what? What is the minimum quantity? So say, if I got a fill for only 100 shares and the quantity left was 900 was still modify it. The reason why, you know, I will not immediately modify. I might not be interested in immediately modifying is one. If I modify this order to a higher amount, I lose time price, price time priority. Second is, I don't want to show that, you know, there's a lot of demand at this particular price, right? So I would want to modify only if a certain amount of my

Speaker 1  1:39:52  
stop order calculation only if a certain amount of my quantity gets traded. For example, I will only. Replace my quantity if more than 80% of the original order has been filled. So if the remaining size is less than 20% of the original size, then I will replace I can have another condition based on time. I don't like this condition. But just to let you know that, you know, people might use this if I've not got a trade for in the last 30 seconds, one minute, two minutes, then I might want to replace my quantity you can have, instead of a percentage, you know, you can have, okay, whatever my order size was, if my remaining quantity is less than a particular number of shares, then I will replace. If you know, I would also replace. So there's something called reserve share, right? How many shares have you are left? So if you wanted say, you know, 100,000 shares to get traded. You've already traded, say, 99,000 only 1000 remain. And then, you know, if the quantity that you want to modify is less than those 1000 quantity, then you might want to, you know, replace your quantity or whatnot. So the the idea is that I would, I would only replace my quantity at this particular price. Right now, what I'll use is, I'll use this condition if 20% less than 20% of the original is remaining. So at 600 if 400 shares get traded, will I replace yes or no. So if I'm using this condition, so stop calculation is, you know, stub calculation could be different based on percentage of original order size, based on time, based on n, number of shares, based on reserve shares. So, you know, you can use any of this condition. Say I'm using 20% of the original size. And then I decided, okay, if my remaining size is less than 20% then I will, then I will say that, okay. Now stub remains. You know, only very few shares are live. So let me just replace them. Does that? Does that make sense? Is stub calculation clear? What is not clear? See the the question was, if I get a partial fill, I need to decide whether I need to replace my quantity or not. So I'm saying one metric that you can use to figure out whether you need to replace your quantity or not is if 20% of the original quantity, less than 20% of the original quantity is left, then I will replace. Oh, replacement is modify. So the question is, what do I mean by replace? See, we are firing plus discretion orders for 1000 quantity each time we need to buy 100,000 shares each time we are firing 1000 quantity. So we fired 1000 quantity at 100.0 at 100, right? Because, you know, the best bid was 99.5 so we pegged at 100. This is our this is our order. Now we get partially filled. So do I need to modify my 600 leftover shares to 1000? Yes or no, this is the question.

Unknown Speaker  1:43:42  
Makes sense. Stop is like a minimum buffer. Yes, you can say that.

Speaker 1  1:43:52  
So in this case, I will not change if this is my stop, if, if I'm saying that, I will only modify or replace my quantity. If less than 20% of the original remaining here, I won't do anything. Make sense. Question is replacing the quantity the only option? I will discuss other options, but say if that was the only option then, and this is the condition that I'm using to figure out whether I need to replace or not. Then here I will not if this was 100, then I would make sense.

Speaker 1  1:44:33  
If I don't do anything, then it is still live. If I don't do anything, then this quantity is live in the market. But because I have a deadline, right? I need to pay 100,000 shares, so I need to again and again Fire Orders, right? Make sense? Yes or No, I.

Speaker 1  1:45:00  
A question. Since it is pegged plus discretion, will it not change the betas for the remaining No, it will not do any. If you are at the best bed and you got a fill and you know the Ask hasn't changed, then it will not do there's no reason why I would send a pegged order, because there's nobody ahead of me. And there's if this 100.5 is not within my discretion range, I will not use my discretion. So then only the only question left is whether I need to replace, modify my quantity from 600 to 1000 make sense. So

Speaker 1  1:45:46  
question, can stop calculation be based on other volume in the order book, others, other traders, volume in the order book, absolutely you can. You can have that you can. You can, you can absolutely have that.

Speaker 1  1:46:07  
So when, when I have, when my quantity is greater than 20% of my original size, I don't do anything. But when my quantity is less than 20% I change the quantity, and not the price. I'm changing the quantity, but not the price, right? I'm not increasing the price. I'm only increasing the quantity because I need to trade 100,000 shares, and I'm only firing orders for for 1000 right? And now 600 is left. So now I want to figure out whether I need to modify the 600 to 1000 or not. Does that make sense?

Speaker 1  1:46:55  
Okay. Now there's a question, how is it different from triggering a new order? I'll tell you. I'll exactly discuss. How is it different from triggering a new order? Let me now. Okay, let me. Let me create this, this condition. Now, guys, please pay attention here. Now there are a couple of questions. Let me, give me 15 minutes. Let me, you know, create scenarios. Make You explain all those scenarios, and then I'll answer all your questions. I said, this is our order. This is the order book. We are at 100,000 quantity, total shares to be bought as 100,000 we've bought 10,000 so we need to buy 90,000 more. We are placing orders of size, 1000 at a particular price, depending upon our Viva pegging discretion, we need to add or modify our order depending upon fills and price changes. Right? Say we get a partial fill of 900 shares at $100 and a third party order comes in after we get this trade, a third party order comes in for 1000 shares are the best bid. So this is how the order book looks like. Out of these 1100 100 are ours. 1000 is some other third party shares, and we know the Pro, so, okay, so what we'll do is, now you know, because only 100 remains the say that you know what? Okay, only, you know, only a stub remains. So I need to add 900 quantity at the same price level, right? What do I do?

Unknown Speaker  1:49:06  
Do I so?

Speaker 1  1:49:12  
There are three things that I can do. I add 900 quantity at the same price level. I send a new pegged order, 4000 quantity at 100.05 best bit plus one text size, or I send a new pegged order for 900 quantity, and don't cancel my 100 quantity at at 100 bucks, right? In case two, I was canceling my 100 quantity left and I was sending a new order at 100.05 4000, quantity. So these are the three cases that I want. To figure out that which is the best out of all these three cases, right?

Speaker 1  1:50:17  
So now say we know the probability. The probability is known to us. The probability of executing at the best level is 60% for the first 1000 quantity. So here we are calculating the probability based on the volume on the best bit, right? So it's how we are slicing. So here the probability is through quantity slicing. So say the probability of executing at the best level is 60% for the first 1000 quantity and then only 10% for the next 1000. Right? People are saying, Why are we slicing it in 1000? Because we don't want to, if we want to buy 100,000 shares, we don't want to, you know, show our hand to the market. Straight away, we are only slicing it. We are placing quantity of 1000 size each time. So now the probability is known to us. These are the three cases that we need to decide. Which is the best one for us Is the question clear, is the objective clear? Which case is the best for us given the probabilities,

Speaker 1  1:51:41  
the question case four, can we modify? Can't we modify the order for another 900 quantity? Oh, you're saying so. So our colleague is saying case four would be, I don't add 900 quantity at the same price, but I modify my existing order, my existing quantity of 100 to 1000. You can do this also. This is case for we can discuss this also. All right, make sense, okay? Question, if you why are we not placing 1000, 100,000 quantity as an iceberg. Oh, I told you, right. Icebergs can be figured out, right? So even if you place an iceberg, sooner or later, people will figure out that there's a huge iceberg here. So that's not a very wise thing to do, right? So you would never want to show your this bigger hand to the market. Small, small slices,

Unknown Speaker  1:53:05  
all right, okay,

Speaker 1  1:53:10  
guys, is the question clear? We need to figure out which case is the best for us. Right question clear, yes or no. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:53:28  
case one is I'm just adding so I have two orders now. So 100 was here. I add another order to this level, 900 in case for I'm modifying this. So in case one, I have two orders. Here, one is of 100 quantity. Second, one is of 900 quantity. In case four, I have only one order because I've modified this 100 to 900 to 1000 clear. So

Speaker 1  1:54:09  
Okay, now, let me just explain each case. Scenario, okay,

Speaker 1  1:54:22  
so case one is, this is, I'll just add case four. Also, don't worry about it. We'll discuss case four also say the fair price is 100.1 all right, so this is where we are, 100 shares of my order at level one, plus 1000 shares of third party fair prices say 100.1 in each case, we'll calculate the expected value. And to be honest, guys, the the key takeaway from this lecture is, whenever you are figuring out. An execution strategy for each scenario, calculate the expected value, right? So create scenarios. What can happen for each scenario, create the expected value, and then decide, and that's all execution is all about, right? Where to place, price, quantity, it's the expected value, right? So this is, and I'll just show it to you, how you can do it here. So case one, what is my if I case one is, if I add 900 quantity at the same level, at 100, what is my expected value of getting a trade here? What is the probability of getting a trade my first 100 guys, please pay attention. I have two orders, 100 quantity and 900 quantity. My first order probability is 60% because it has price time priority, right? So these 1000 shares came after me, so I have time a price time priority. So my first 100 odd, first 100 shares, have a probability as a have a probability of getting filled at 60% the profit is 10% it's 10 cents, right? Fair price was 100.1 if I get a trade at 100, I make 10 cents. So this is the value of my first 100 orders, first 100 shares, my second order, which has 900 shares, the it loses its time priority, right? It has lost its time priority because 100, then 1000 shares, and then my 900 shares, so 10% probability into number of shares into the profitability remains the same at 10 cents. So the expected value is $15 makes sense, yes or no. EV is embedded in the code for each movement, I first calculate the expected value for different scenarios, and then I figure out which is the best scenario, and then I place the order. So probability of 100 shares is probability of 100 shares getting traded with a 60% profit is 10 cents, quantity is 100 and so on.

Speaker 1  1:57:35  
What is the case? Two, if I cancel my 100 quantity at 100 and just place a new order at 100.05 right here, the EV would be 60% because I'm at level 100.05 So 60% quantity of share 1000 profitability is obviously less, so 60% into 1000, into five cents, $30 so better than case one. Right? Everybody understands this. If I peg my order, cancel my 100 quantity, Peg at 100.05 1000 quantity, my probability of execution becomes 60% my profitability is only five cents. Quantity is 1000 so great. Now, what about case three?

Speaker 1  1:58:39  
What about case three. In case three, I'm not canceling my 100 quantity. I'm just pegging 900 quantity at 100.05 so because this 100 quantity is before this 1000 shares of the third party. So why do I need to cancel this? Right? This has a great price time priority. I'll just add 900 quantity above this, and incidentally, the probability of executing the first 1000 quantity at whatever level is 60% so here, this is the best case scenario, right? My 900 shares have a probability of 60% because they are at 100.05 the profitability is less. But even my second order, my original order, this has price time priority over the third party, right? So the probability is 60% because it comes in the first 1000 quantity. First 1000. Quantity the profitability is 10 cents. Quantity is less, but that's fine. So case three is the absolute best, right? Now, if we calculate case four, right? That is, calculate case four. Four.

Unknown Speaker  2:00:06  
So let us calculate case for right. What would be the EV guys?

Unknown Speaker  2:00:15  
What would be the EV 1000 quantity? What would be the probability,

Speaker 1  2:00:22  
because I have increased the quantity, my I lose my price time priority, even if I modify this, I because I am upgrading the quantity, I lose my price time priority. So the probability, the probability is 0.1, the profitability is

Unknown Speaker  2:00:50  
point one. So this is

Speaker 1  2:01:05  
to $10 make sense. So I would not want to do that case three. So the probability of executing the first house. So here, in this case, the probability, I've not calculated the probability based on levels. I've sliced it based on quantity. So, you know, the probability can also be sliced with respect to the volume traded at whatever level. So level is just, I mean, it is a man made thing, right? It's not written in stone. So either you can slice it through price, you can slide it through volume. You can slice it through time. You know different things. So here I slice it through volume to the probability of executing the first 1000 quantity, no matter what level was 60% so in case three even your 100 quantity had a probability of 60% make sense.

Speaker 1  2:02:11  
Does that make sense? Can we find out our price time priority at any given point of time based on tick data and order book, absolutely, absolutely. So the question was, if 900 quantities are the best bid, you know why probability is 60% for those 100 quantity? Because the probability of executing the first 1000 quantity at whatever level is 60% even in case for the we have first 1000 right, that part is a no, no in case four guys, please pay attention. What happens in case four guys? Please pay attention. What happens in case four see a third party. Order has already come here, 1000. So, right. So the quantity is 1100 100 our shares, 1000 shares of third party, if I modify this 102,000, so, you know, in in the national stock exchange in India. And I think this is what most of the exchanges follow. What happens is, if you upgrade, if you modify this order, if I send a modify that modify my 100 shares to 1000 shares, NSC would make my make me lose my priority with respect to these 1000 shares. If I modify my quantity to lower so, if I modify it from, say, 100 to 10, then I will not lose my time priority. But if I upgrade this quantity, if I say, you know, I want to modify this order from 100 to 1000, then I will lose my price time priority to other orders that are already at the same price. Does that make sense? How is this probability calculated? Again, this was, this is the same way we did it in MMT, 01, right? I told you how you can calculate your probability of self. So this is, I'm assuming here, the 60% but again, just to give you an idea of how you figure out these expected values and these probabilities in live market, the probability of execution of first order at every level will be different, right? It's not necessary. That's exactly what I'm trying to say. See, you have to understand this. It's about how you slice your data. If you slice your data based on volume, then you might get a different probability. If you slice it through levels, then you will get a different probability. You have to see for which. Stock, what is better? It's slicing by volume, better slicing by price. Better slicing by levels. Better, you know, again, slicing in some stocks, slicing by time suffices, right? So, you know, I mean you would, you would have, for the same situation, you would have a different probability for at 930 then at 1030 then at 1130 so I'm just creating different scenarios. I mean, this probability could have been different for different levels also, then the expected value will change. But I'm just trying to tell you that this is how people do it. This is how, at least, I do it, and how I look at the markets. So the priority change for modify orders is it for only NSE, BSC for NSE, I'm sure. Again, you know, you have to read the protocols for NSE. Again, there are, you know, the the exchange actually tells you what happens if you modify your order for NSE. I know it for a fact. If you size up, you lose your price time. If you size down, then you don't but for any other exchanges, you can figure out from their protocols,

Speaker 1  2:06:15  
it is extremely The question is, how do we figure out this fair price? As I said, right now, we can assume you know this fair price is through VWAP, right? But again, as the ePAT course goes ahead, you will have different strategies to figure out the fair price. I completely understand, at the end of the day, in any trading, in any sort of trading, right? Whether you're trading effects, stocks, futures, options, it's the fair price, right? It's at the the crux is the fair price. But you know, and I understand that right now, again, this is just the fourth or the fifth lecture, right? So right now, let us assume that you know you are getting the fair price through VWAP, and then as the course moves on, you will have more and more models to build this fair price.

Unknown Speaker  2:07:15  
Can I give you an example of slicing by price? So, so by,

Speaker 1  2:07:23  
you know, so by price, I meant that you know what is the probability. Or if you slice by price, then you would have thresholds that you know the probability if you are 1% below the below the best bid, or point 1% below the best bit. So it would be a percentage of the price at the best bet. So what if you are, you know, if you are at the best bed or point 1% down, point 2% down, and so on. So based on what is the best bit that is slicing through price, make sense, okay? And then such slicing has to be back tested for each stock, yeah, essentially, yes. So when I, when I take a strategy live, I run it, you know, I run my simulations for at least, you know, eight to 10 months for whatever 500 stocks, right? And then I figure out that, you know, what is the best model for that stock, and then I use that model for that particular stock. So,

Speaker 1  2:08:44  
a question here we are assuming that this fair price will not change again. This is for this snapshot. So you, whenever you place an order, you decide for that instant of time, as soon as you place the order, there are some other movements. Your algorithm gets triggered, your fair price might change. Then you have to modify your price. But when you are deciding where, where to place, the order at that point of time, the fair price is fixed, right? That is the snapshot of fair price that your algorithm has no simulation. Then historical data with historical data. No, no, I don't run my simulation. Then live market on historical data, on historical data. Well, like you know, six to eight months of historical data. All right?

Speaker 1  2:09:46  
Will we have the probability, even if we slice through price and calculate absolutely you can, you know, you'll have the exact same things when you do it with price or volume or levels the con. That remains the same, right? Okay, so where were we with this algorithm? So start order, book, stability, pegging, logic, discretion, what happens when a stub order remains. So this, this part of the algorithm is explaining that. And then you know, what do you do when there are unfilled, shared or partial orders? Okay, now, uh, pegging order with threshold set alone flags, all right. Okay. So as I said, How can one avoid getting manipulated by algorithm, by this, by those gorilla bots, right? So what you can do is, if you are pegging, if you are blindly pegging, people can manipulate you, right?

Speaker 1  2:11:15  
I'll just give you a simple, very simple logic of what you can do to avoid you can use pegging with a small chain, slight change, and then you know, so that you don't get manipulated. So as I said, if you are, if you're pegging, logic is simple, always five cents better than the best bid. It will make your algorithm fire an order at 100.45 you know, even if the sell order is at 100.5 so you know, you don't want to be too aggressive, and you don't want to show the market that you know you you are always pegging. So how do you avoid that? So what you can do is, if this is the order book, say your pegging logic is five cents above the best bid. But you put a threshold, and you know my recommendation is threshold limit should be more than 50% of the average bid. Ask spread, right? So Sid, your the threshold is around 30 cents. So what you can do is to fire your 1000 shares at 100, because you've pegged it at 99.95 and you note down the best bit when you fired your order at 99.95 now

Unknown Speaker  2:13:02  
you the threshold tells you that you will not peg it again till your modification needs around 30 cents.

Speaker 1  2:13:18  
So say another order comes in at 100.1 right for 200 shares, you don't do anything. What you do is you check okay, your best bid minus the bid that you had noted. So you know, 99.95 the current best bid is 100.1 100.1 minus 99.5 is less than 30 cents. So that's fine. You know, you if it is less than your threshold, you will not do anything. So it this, this check that I will only modify if I need to modify beyond my threshold. This check simply helps you avoid unnecessary pegging. It does not make you peg again and again, and it makes it difficult for a gorilla bot to figure out that, you know, this guy is pegging unnecessarily. So if I had a simple pegging logic, we would have modified this order to 100.15 but now, with this threshold, I will not modify my order until, unless the market crosses my threshold. So again, say a new order comes at 100.2 if I had a simple pegging logic, I would have straight away moved to 100.25 but here I will check okay, 100.2 minus 99.95 the bid noted, still less than 30 cents. Great. Won't do anything now and I. Their order comes in at 100.3 now, in case you know somebody is hell mind on buying, then I know that. You know what. Okay. Now I will modify my order, because somebody is already willing to buy at 100.3 the market might move up. So now I will modify my order, 200.35 because it has crossed my threshold. And there's one more important thing, ideally, if you are you know, you should always see what is the size ahead of you.

Unknown Speaker  2:15:43  
So if

Speaker 1  2:15:46  
this, if you are, your quantity is 1000, but the quantity above you is way less then you should not, you know, you should always have you should have this check. Also check the order size ahead of me. If this is greater than 50% only, then I will fire. If the order ahead of me is less than 50% of my quantity, I will not peg so you can have two checks for pegging. One is the threshold, and other is the significant size ahead of you. If the size ahead of you is more than 50% then you can peg, otherwise you should not. Again my my thumb rule of so you know, how much quantity should I place to begin with, right? Ideally, what I do is I calculate what is the average sum of quantities, you know, at the first top five levels, right? And I place my quantity around 25 to 30% of that. So, you know, so that I don't, I'm not creating a lot of impact. So maybe, maybe, you know, around 20 to 25 is, is fine, right? So you don't want to be too low or too high. So that is my thumb rule based on the volume. So if the you know, if the sum is around 1000 for the first five level, I will be comfortable placing an order for 200 make sense? Yes or no. So again, this is my thumb rule, so you know when you are distributing your quantities, you know you know how much volume is there, you can change your quantity according to this thumb rule.

Speaker 1  2:17:50  
Can we do the same for quantity like we kept a threshold? Yeah, absolutely. So it automatically, if this is your criteria, that you will only fire if the size ahead of you is more than 50% then this is exactly what you are doing, right? This is exactly until, unless there is more and more quantity ahead of you, you won't unnecessarily peg your your order make sense?

Speaker 1  2:18:25  
Now there might be many HFT trailer you using multiple variations of Gorilla both. So this is these. I use these two things. And you know, I have not seen my orders getting manipulated. So that is why I used, you know, I shared these two things with you. If, in case, you figure out other ways, you know, please do share. I'll be more than happy to implement that, right? I mean, so this is what I figured out. So, you know, I'm just sharing it. I'm sure there would be others. So you know, do, do share if you find something else, yeah. Question, should we not check the demand, supply probability curve before firing a new order? Oh, that all that obviously goes. So again, this, all these things go hand in hand, right? So again, you you have to check the fair value. You have to check the demand, supply probability curve. You have to check the, you know, if, if people might not be gaming you. So all these things, the expected value of modifying everything, goes hand in hand. So that's what I'm saying. Nothing in this lecture can be taken, okay, I need to, this is the only thing that I need to do. Everything goes hand in hand. So.

Speaker 1  2:20:01  
Uh, if there's a discretion of 20 cents, then the order gets executed. Here, absolutely the order will get executed, but again, only if your fair price is below 100 point is above 100.5 remember, for discretion, I always said this. Always check your price. It should always be for buy. Buying the fair price should be above, right? So, as I said, I mean, it looks simple and it is simple, but these checks should be kept in mind the slippage affect pegging. Now, slippage is a different concept. I mean slippage. What is slipper? Slippage? Is your theoretical value? Is you could take a trade at 100, but in live markets, you took a trade at 100.05 so five cents is your slippage. So I don't know you know begging, begging might increase your slippage, if that's what you meant. But those are different concepts, right? So,

Speaker 1  2:21:24  
okay, there's a question from day trading perspective. I will take, let me complete this lecture, and I'll take your it would be great if you can report repost this question after 10 minutes, so that I can take it. I'll take it in detail. Alright, so this is done, so I have, okay, set a loan flag. Now, as I said, if so significant, I've discussed significant size ahead. I've discussed partial fills from the last 30 seconds. Okay? Whipsaw correction and alone flag. So, as I said, what happened? What can happen is, say you were not alone here, right? Say you were not alone here when you pay so Say your quantity, okay, let me

Unknown Speaker  2:22:23  
just create This so

Speaker 1  2:22:56  
All right, so say you fired and

Speaker 2  2:23:00  
say, You

Speaker 1  2:23:14  
fired an order for 100 shares. All right, at 100, so you are at 100 here, so right now,

Speaker 1  2:23:29  
right now, your order is alone at level one is This. Does this make sense to everybody? Yes or no. Now say another player, two orders for quantity, 200 each come at Dollar. 100 Right. Right, the order book changes to this.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:07  
Does this make sense? Yes or No, guys, does this make sense? Yeah.

Speaker 1  2:24:22  
Does this make sense? Okay? Now what happens is so now you're not alone. Now you are not alone right now. Say, you know, things happen, and these two quantities. So this was at this was at 10am this happened. That's a 1005, and then at 1015, So you are again alone, and this also, you know people behind you also, you know they're sort of moving down. So now this is called a whipsaw correction. From here, the order book changed to this, right, the price changed, the quantity came down. So this is 200 right? This is, this is called a whipsaw correction. You are not you are alone first, then not alone. And then, you know, people are moving out. So,

Speaker 1  2:25:43  
right, if significant size ahead of you has moved, say, two, three ticks down right. So you can have a significant size, like, how much size so maybe 80% 50% 40% how much size ahead of you has moved down so here

Speaker 1  2:26:09  
alone flag and whipsaw, here, you know there was, you were at 100, 400 quantity has moved down right. So four times the quantity has moved down right. So now, so this tries to tell us now you're alone at 100, this would infer, from this, you should infer that you probably also need to go down, because people are moving down. Does that make sense? So if you are alone, or if they're, you know, size ahead of you has moved down, you need to quickly come down. So this is, again, something that you can add in your logic of execution, that you know, if this is happening, I need to move down. So uh, okay. Now, you know, this is pretty overwhelming, I know, but you know, I have discussed every part of this. So, you know, don't, don't, don't worry about this flow chart. I have discussed top order calculations, set alone, flag, pegging price with you know thresholds significant size ahead of you know maybe 50% or 80% is ahead of you, then you know what you can do. Okay? My final discussion would be on discretion, range tips, right? It's difficult to figure out. It's difficult to figure out, you know what is, what should be the discretion range, right? So I'll just give you some of my thumb rules.

Speaker 1  2:28:00  
Discretion range can be set at half the average spread, right? This is a starting point. Could be half the average spread. The average spread is around 50 cents. Then your discretion range could be around at 25 cents, right? What I, what I usually do, is, and this is, this is difficult, but, you know, I calculated the ideal Dr range for my strategies from, you know, and again, in in simulations, in historical simulation, this is very difficult to simulate, because it's very difficult to figure out if you are, whether you would have gotten the trade if you are between the bid, ask spread. So I collected, I actually, you know, some send some orders in the live market, very small orders, just to figure out where I'm getting traded, you know, and what could be at good discretion range? So very small. I tested this out with very small and for for very small quantities. And then I figured out, you know, what is so whether 50% 20% 10% what is a good Dr range for that particular stock? So this is something that you could do, but as a good start, you can have it somewhere less than half the average spread. Also you can change the discretion range. If your strategy calculate that you know there's a price trend, so maybe you are doing a momentum strategy, there's a price trend, then obviously you need to increase your discretion range, because the price is moving up. If, if the price is sort of mean rewarding, then your discretion range should be low, right? Because the price will come back to your price. Order book imbalance also tells you, if the liquidity at opposite, you want to buy, and there's huge supply, your discretion. Range should be low, right? If the if you want to buy, and the supply is low, then probably you know higher discretion range makes sense. So a formula like this, right? Base discretion range around 50% of the bid, ask spread, plus, if you can, if your strategy figures out a trend, then you know trend into some, some parameter that increases the discretion range and liquidity. If there's more liquidity, then you decrease it. So these three things, you can determine these three things to figure out what your discretion range would be right

Unknown Speaker  2:30:47  
at the end of the day. You know, the the idea is to

Speaker 1  2:30:55  
create different scenarios and evaluate them based on the expected value. Now let me see if I have so what I did was

Unknown Speaker  2:31:17  
I had created a very simple order logic. Let me see if,

Unknown Speaker  2:31:27  
yeah. So, okay,

Speaker 1  2:31:35  
so you know, so I just took some snippets of my code and put them in in VB and Excel. So what I did was, I mean, see what you can do is, so say there's a market tech. So if you press this button, you mentioned the prices, say the price is under point 05 so you press market tech, so the order book gets updated, right? Say you want to place a pegged order. So you press this so now this is your quantity. Say, for trade happens. So quantity, so this is your acknowledgements, right? So you place an order, 100.1, quantity 10. You got a trade, right? And this is your Order Manager figuring out, you know, where, how are your orders moving. And then say you put another order at 100.2 market pick, so you know the market increases. Then again, you're sending a pegged order. So now, you know, it modified this order leftover, order quantity to 200.25 and similarly for pegging plus threshold and whatnot. So I created this. I'll share this sheet with you, just for you to sort of have a have a more on a better understanding of, you know how these things so these buttons are basically, you know the triggers, right? If a market tick comes, you know it will trigger these functions, right, this pegged order function, or whatever function you have. So whenever there's a market trade, whenever there's a trade, your function of pegged order will get triggered. And when that function is triggered, in that function, you will calculate all the expected values and everything to figure out how to place the order, right? So I will share this sheet also with you, and this is just refresh. It refreshes everything. Again, very simple, but you know, this is exactly how we do it. Market tech comes in, we trigger our functions. Trade comes in, we trigger our function. Acknowledgement comes in, we trigger our functions, and so on. So, you know, this is what I had for you guys. As I said, I have 25 more minutes. I will spend these 25 minutes taking as many questions as possible regarding anything, any question that you have regarding trading right things that I left during the lecture. Please feel free to post those questions again. I'll take, I'll try to take as many questions as possible. What happens is, there's a flurry of questions. In case your question gets buried. You know, it would be great if, if it has not been answered, just post it again, right? Believe me, I'm not partial to any question. If I don't know any question, I'll tell you that. You know what, I'll have to look at this question. So don't think I'm neglecting or ignoring our question. It's just, even if I don't know it, I will tell you that you know what. I don't know it. I'll need to figure this out. Right? So there was a there was a question on trading days perspective. Oh, so, okay, so you. I was just asking that person to post that questions. So now I'll take it. The question is, this question is, from day trading perspective, how to assess the relative strength of buyer and seller, the relative strength, as I discussed an MMT 01 and those articles that I shared after MMT, 01, the relative strength is through that, right? The order imbalance, right? So that, through those methods, you can assess the relative strength. How do order book imbalances arise, particularly during news events or around major support, resistance levels? How do the order book imbalances arise? I mean different, different interpretations of results. News, you know, somebody might interpret, okay, this news is very good for the stock. Somebody else might think that, you know what? No, this is not as good. So that is how the imbalance occurs, right now. Why is gold price going up and down, right? Because there is some imbalance, right? People thinking, Oh, let me buy gold. Buy gold. There's a shortage. There was a shortage of silver in India. So, you know, the the prices shot up. And then, you know, as people realize, no, you know what, I have other assets to invest in. You know, they sell gold, they invest in something else. So these things happen, just simple supply and demand, right? That's that's how it happens. What is the fair value gap? And how do these arise? Information asymmetry, I would say right. Information asymmetry.

Speaker 1  2:36:48  
If your My fair value gap, my fair value calculation models would be very different from yours, the the better one will survive, right? So just different models, different understanding of markets, how to anticipate and react to such possible price moves. I don't react to particular price movements. I My strategy. The fundamental block of my strategy remains the same for any result, any price movement, so I don't react to particular events. And frankly, you know, I think the strategy should be robust enough to handle any event. So it's not that how to react in particular events. It's just that a whatever strategy you make should be, it should be stable enough, and all those price movements, all right, okay. Till now, we have learned so many concepts that go hand in hand while taking the trade. It seems very difficult to implement so many things all taken together while taking the trade. So all these things can be automated. They have to be automated. There is no way of doing these things without automation. Guys, it's, I mean, it's really impossible. Will we get hands on practice to apply all these market microstructure concepts during epack? It's like a lot of theory that's easy to forget unless we don't actively use it. So, you know, after ePAT or during ePAT, you know, you can ask your relationship manager. I think we do float. We used to at least float projects which were hands on, on different, you know, things that we've covered in EPAC. So I don't know if you can start them during the ePad, but definitely after the ePad, we used to float them, and you can take them, and that's an, that's an actually, you know, hands on practice. And you know, you will be assigned a mentor with you, a faculty member, who would guide you through that project. So that's, that's where the hands on comes in. How much of my PNL would I say is due to good execution? This is a good question. It depends upon the strategy. One of my strategies, I would say 80% PNL is because of execution. You know, I, I mean, we've made small improvements in execution, and we see a, you know, like, we've been doing this since, like, the last three, four months, and we've not changed the fair value, right? The fair value just when to place the order, how to place the order, it's, it's huge. I'm telling you,

Unknown Speaker  2:39:39  
it's huge. So, you know,

Speaker 1  2:39:43  
my Okay, in that strategy, it's pretty high. But again, there are some strategy where it's not that important. I'll say that. So it's, it depends upon the strategy, but don't, don't sell execution short. Ex. Execution is important. You know, the strategy that I'm working on currently, that I'm, you know, making executing live it has execution has a huge effect on it. For retail traders, is knowing the bid, ask important. As I said, you should know the concept whether placement execution matters to you. If you care about those couple of cents per $100 traded, then execution matters. Otherwise not. That's my thumb rule. Okay, I'm naive to algo trading and currently in college as well. So what should be my go to strategy for now, as I'm completely new to, okay, if you're completely new, I'll tell you exactly what I did, right? I also started doing this in my B School. Work on different ideas, right? Momentum strategies, you know, inter day strategies, hold it for two, three days or intraday. Just, just try to generate new ideas, you know, like, you know, we discussed moving averages, right? Just try to see, or we discussed ATR, try to get a hang of, you know, of developing strategies, testing them historically, you know, that is, that is the best thing that you can do. It will make you understand how to you know how to analyze. So if your strategy doesn't work, see which trades don't work. Why did they not work? Can you put something else to it so that you know you can get those trades removed, right? So this is, this is the best thing that you can do if there is very high volatility in the market and the order books move very fast, how do you tackle that? Or the system has to be robust, and we continuously keep improving our systems. Right when we started, I'll tell you when we started, my system used to crash once a week, then maybe once a month. And now I don't remember when it crashed last so you know, so you have to be, you have to, you have to build your your infrastructure in that way from the order logs you shared earlier, I noticed that the market data picks are timestamped with nanosecond level precision. Yeah, that's true. Does your execution infrastructure actually respond to these ticks with comparable Absolutely, it does. It does we do? We do operate out of a colo environment, absolutely for such low latency? Yes, we do? Are there hfts whose bread and butter are gorilla bots? I don't know. I don't know what other firms do, but I mean, I hope not on market simulator. Is that a back testing strategy instead of execution for am grim on market simulator. I don't know this. Just just drop an email about this. I'll figure out. I don't know about this, all right, but thank you for asking a question that I don't know. I'll also live and learn. Can I use this with Forex? Absolutely everything that I've discussed today can be used for any asset class. It's asset agnostic. How do I practice my lectures if you are new to trading, as I said, execution part was, you know, if you're new, I don't think execution is more important to you. I think my lectures on my first lecture, historical testing, statistics, you know, those are important lectures. So, you know, models, stock model. So, you know, just try to create different models. Try to read, as I said, quant media. It's a, you know, you can access articles free of cost. They have good ideas. Test those ideas. The more you churn ideas, the better you will get. So my, my advice to all of you would be, read, test them out, churn more ideas. See what is not going right, and then try to improve that. That is the best way to practice. You know what? What I've discussed so far. Would you be open to sharing any insights into alpha generating by your trading strategies? I'm particularly curious about how your form measures and attributes performance. Okay, I can discuss, I will discuss the metrics that we use to figure out whether the strategy is good or bad tomorrow. You know, in my tomorrow, in my lecture, tomorrow, alpha generating again. You know, I cannot tell you how we what our alpha is. But again, the process is, read more. You know, club different ideas together, test them out. It's. See if, if they're working, you know, historically test them. How do I apply ungrams market similar to trading? I don't, as I said, I don't know about this. I'll, I've not used this so, you know, I just drop an email. I will,

Unknown Speaker  2:45:15  
maybe I'll figure it out.

Speaker 1  2:45:17  
How to define the problem statement. I don't understand this question, the problem statement is very simple, right? In general, make money of the markets, right? What stock should I buy? When, when to buy, what to buy, how much to buy. This is the problem statement, right? Approximate trade volumes, handled per day by traders, and some inside of average size of portfolios managed, typically by traders. Oh, okay, hedge funds. Would, you know, would would manage portfolios of million, like, 100 millions, or what? Not right, 1 billion. I mean, it really depends. HFT traders would be, you know, the portfolio manager would be less right? Maybe in 10s of millions, right? I mean, per strategy. So it depends upon, upon your strategy, your size of the form and whatnot. What as a solo trader, what kind of infra should we have? A lot I, you know, the I always say this, the barrier to entry in this field is negligible. All you need is $100 a laptop and an internet connection with you. That's all you need, really, right? So you don't need a lot of info. I when I started my a lot of my MFT strategies, they just work on a simple laptop. I mean, you know, they don't require a lot of heavy infra. VIX, sometimes Wix increases to 50, 60% from 14 to 15% in that case, it's difficult to find an exit. How to tackle such situations again, I mean this, this is a very strategy specific question. I'm assuming if increasing Wix is creating problem, then you're shorting options, you need to have a stop loss, right? Whatever, if you're shorting the option, I'd say $100 you need to keep, keep a stop loss, depending upon the theta or the Vega of the option, right? So we can discuss this offline. This because it is strategy specific, but stop loss based on theta or Vega can be a solution. How to use screener to pick right stock for building strategies. Oh, it's, I don't pick stocks, so my strategy is other way i i try to build a strategy. So say momentum strategy, right? I did not pick a particular stock to build my momentum strategy. I develop a strategy, say, a moving average strategy, right? And then I see which stock fits in this strategy. So it's the other way. What do you mean by infrastructure? By infrastructure? I mean, you know, your computers, your processes, your internet connections, how do you connect with the exchange that is your that comes into infrastructure, right, your broker, your connection with broker, like, how does your computer connect with the brokers application and whatnot? That is, that is, that is infrastructure. So for you, it would be your computer, your internet. And how do you, you know, which broker do you connect with? For beginners, to be future proof, what could be a good spec for a system? Again, as I said, it's very, you

Unknown Speaker  2:48:55  
know, if very

Speaker 1  2:48:59  
strategy dependent for any medium frequency strategy. You know, simple, you know, laptops would suffice. You don't need a lot of very heavy ut

Unknown Speaker  2:49:08  
laptops or medium frequency strategies,

Speaker 1  2:49:12  
how to decide the null and the alternate hypothesis statement, again, for statistical analysis, the null hypothesis is always that there is no relationship. There is no I cannot give you a blank statement that this is how null hypothesis is desired. But usually you want to reject the null hypothesis, right? So if that helps, otherwise, if you have a particular thing in mind, we can discuss that offline as a retail investor, from where to get tick data and where to save it? Wow. As a retail investor, if you are an investor, why do you need tech data? I don't know. But again, this is a question getting historical data. You know, this is a question that would be best answered by by a relationship manager. I i. I'm not the best person to ask that. I've been doing trading profitability for a while. That's great. I need access to more capital. Oh, how to raise capitals? We can I can discuss this offline. I have done this. I do this day in, day out. We can definitely have a chat. Just shoot me an email and we can have a discussion one on one, would you agree that in emerging stock markets there are more efficient inefficiencies there? Absolutely, absolutely, this is my personal opinion that in emerging stock markets, Indian markets, Brazil, they are way more inefficient than than the US absolutely how to draw ideas from research papers or existing popular strategy ideas. Figure out what the idea is. Read about the idea. Figure out the crux, why is this idea working, or why was it working before? And then, you know, try to try to modify it based on based on your geography, or based on what has changed in the market. How is AI helping, or role of it in strategy building? Oh, for me, for our firm, AI is helping us way too much to code. I have coded in the last six to eight months or one year. I've coded way more than, you know, in the last three to four years because of AI. So that's it. Helps you build code right? And now these days, people are saying that, you know, they've created a whole strategy using AI. I've not done that, but people are doing that. So maybe that's how, okay. I am new to quantitative concepts, finding them a bit tough to follow. All right, I'm planning to move into quant research or analyst role after e pat. All right. Guide me what basic skills I should focus on the next six months to build a strong foundation. Good question. You should be thorough with, with what is being taught, any pad, right? Don't look here on there, right? This is exactly, you know, there are so, you know, it's about, and this is what I like about this ePad course, right? The information available is just huge. It's humongous, right? I think one of the best thing that EPA does is it sort of condenses what is important. So if there is no excuse for you to not being comfortable with what is being taught, we are if you are ready to put your hard work. We are here to help you out, right? So that is one so so be comfortable with these concepts. If you're planning to move into a quant role, I would say, you know John back test new ideas, right? Because no amount of just these lectures will help you understand. Then, you know, if you try to build a strategy, try to take it live, that is the best learning. So in the next six months, I would say, if you have six months with you, I would say, understand the concept that are being taught in ePad and try to work on a project that helps you back test an idea, I think that will make you learn the concepts in a better way. How do I optimize any trading strategies? Whether we go ahead and trade or reject hypothesis, I will, I will discuss some of this tomorrow. So you know, I'll just hold on to this question, how to optimize and whatnot. I'll discuss some of this tomorrow, and then, if something is left in this post, this question again tomorrow, and I'll take it. Would you be able to share which asset class my firm or we trade in futures, options and equity?

Unknown Speaker  2:54:01  
So cash, futures and options, that's, that's what we trade.

Speaker 1  2:54:06  
How you build MFT strategy? What typical? What did your typical tech stack bundle consist of? My tech stack only consists of a simple desktop computer, and I run my MFT strategies through that. That's it. So I connect with the brokers API and I send my orders through that.

Unknown Speaker  2:54:29  
So that's all that's that's my tech stack, really,

Speaker 1  2:54:34  
am I? Does my firm make markets in options? No, we do it in stocks. Also we do it in future, then we do it in options. So all three assets we make markets. What is? What is market making? Sure market making for a wider audience? Why not? So just if you can look at my screen, you.

Speaker 1  2:55:03  
Market making is simply estimate a fair price at the at the bottom, at the cracks of it, estimate a fair price and bid around this fair price. So I so you know if, if, if my strategy has estimated that the fair price of the stock is at 100, I will place my bid at 99.5 and my ask 100.5 right and say, after couple of ticks, my fair prices changes, then I will shift my bid price based on my fair price, so 99.3 and 100.3 so this is market making. You're always trying to build and buy and sell around your fair price. For beginners, do we need VRAM plus GPU to start with? Not really. I mean, I don't know why you would require that much of processing power? No, not really. I for my MFT strategies. I don't use GPUs.

Unknown Speaker  2:56:10  
Okay. Is

Speaker 1  2:56:12  
there a way to obtain historical data? Book again, for historical data, you know, your relationship manager can answer that better. If we want to create alpha, do we need to genius or continuous practice? We should learn at we should learn that. Continuous practice. What would would do it right, working on a particular strategy, churning? More would do what? Okay, I've been a discretionary trader for the last seven years. My strategy works in well, in back test and life conditions. However, I struggle with execution, discipline over trade, so he overtrade, then emotional decisions. Can algorithmic trading help me enforce rules and improve consistency. Algorithmic training will definitely help you enforce rules and improve there. This is one of the biggest benefits of algorithmic trading, right? If you are losing because of execution emotional decisions, please trade algorithmically. At what cost Have you bought NSE server rack? Okay, you know cost and all

Speaker 1  2:57:31  
you know. Okay, you know. I don't want to discuss costs and all here. Okay, does NAC allow any individual to have their own server? No, you'll have to, you'll have to be, you have to be a member. So if you're not a member, you have to partner with a broker. So if you pay enough money, the broker will allow you to

Unknown Speaker  2:57:58  
put your servers in in their racks.

Speaker 1  2:58:04  
Should a solo trader be investing in his own server if he's trying HFT alone? If you're trying HFT, then you have to have Co Location, right? So you'll have to do that. You'll have to invest in your own server. There is no other way. I don't think any any HFT form would allow using their servers. So you have to do that, lft versus HFT. Which one would you prefer for retail, and why lft and MFT for retail and beginners? Because HFT has a huge capex and it has a lot of nuances. I think MFT to start with MFT and lft is better. Can you give us a glimpse of algo trading in real market? I don't know like so I think you'll have a you'll have a lecture on this, on, you know, on how to execute orders based on the brokers API. I think you will have it. If not, then, you know, I have to figure out if How can, how I can give you a glimpse. Oh, oh, so you know, I think you know, discuss it with your relationship manager if, if you have that, if we have that in ePad, course, if not, then I'll definitely think about so drop me an email and I'll figure something out for a typical retail trader without access to HFT infrastructure, medium frequency algorithm strategies can still be effective absolutely in such cases, execution efficiency, which, while still relevant, is not as critical, absolutely. It is not absolutely. It is not as I said, it is not execution is not important. This sort of execution is not important if. Uh, one or two cents don't matter to you, per $100 traded. If they don't, then it's not but there's see, but again, there's no the concept of expected value can still be applied, right? So I totally get that. There is no need for you to worry about all these things you can you can leave them as it is, any preferred AI? Useful strategy, since many are available now, I don't solicit any, any AI. I don't really. I'm indifferent. Everyone has trading straddles. Is it less profitable or more? Does it still have an edge?

Speaker 1  3:00:53  
I, you know, the reason why, why I'm hesitating, is that I it's, it's so true. You cannot be, you know, more correct about it. I think everybody short, a lot of people short straddles, and I know a lot of people make money out of it. So if your question is, is it more is it still profitable? Yes. Is it less profitable? Maybe, yes, yeah. As compared to the last two, three years, it's definitely less profitable, but you're absolutely right. There's so many people who just trade straddles. Okay, are there ways to decrease the commissions paid? Yeah, you know the way to decrease your commissions paid to brokers is just increase your volume. So you know, if your volumes increase, then you can have a discussion with the broker, what type of analysis needs to be done when you have a strategy. Again, as I said, I will discuss that tomorrow. If you have a strategy, then you know what, what are the metrics that you need to figure out? I'll discuss that tomorrow. Okay? For a beginner. Is there any better way to read and understand? Where did it go? Research Paper. What was your strategy to read research paper when you started the career? As I said, I still read a lot quant PDF. As I said, it's a good resource. I think you can, you should, you know, just try to get some ideas out of it. So, you know, as simple as that, I, you know, I read a lot, and then I I got, you know, I initially I was interested in cash market. So, you know, I used to read strategies on that were applicable on cash markets. But depending upon your choice of preference, you can read research articles. And as I said, quantity has a lot of free articles. You can you can read that what level of math is usually used in MFT, stochastic calculus or PhD, stochastic engineering level, undergrad level match PhD level is

Speaker 2  3:03:05  
it's not required. I don't have a PhD, so I do fine.

Speaker 1  3:03:08  
So swing trading a doable business. Again, I can't say that swing trading is good or bad. Test your strategy out on historical data. If it makes money, great, right? That's, that's, that's the only thing that I can say. What will your requirement and demand? If I apply as a quantitative analyst in my company, in my company, we look at how good are you in statistics, probability? So, you know, we have around three, four rounds we measure your you know, how do you perform? You know, under pressure, how? How good is your maths? Under Pressure, calculation and all statistics, probability, and you know, in general, you know, logical reasoning. How does one make profit through market making? Can you give me an example with calculations Absolutely So, if you're looking at my screen, say you are bidding at 99.3 and you are selling at 100.3 if you get a say the quantity is is 100 on both sides.

Speaker 2  3:04:36  
First trade, you get a buy at 99.3 second trade, you get a sell at 100.3 400 quantity.

Speaker 1  3:05:01  
And 400 quantity. So this is the best case scenario, so you make $100 in this round trade.

Speaker 1  3:05:17  
And that's, that's, that's how you're doing, right? You're bidding on both sides and maintaining your inventory. And then at the end of the day, you square everything off, and then you make of the spread, which option good for our growth, working, or trade for us working?

Unknown Speaker  3:05:36  
Or, okay, you know, it's not, you know,

Speaker 1  3:05:44  
there is nothing as good or bad in life, you know. And I'm not saying this for trading. This is my general philosophy. There's no, there's no such thing as good or bad. It's just the consequences, right? If you do something, if you enjoy it, if you enjoy working in your current firm, and that's great for you, right? But if you, if you, if you don't, if you want, you know, if you get excited by trading, and that's great for you, right? In the initial 10 years of my career, I tried at least four or five different things, right? I was in a research role, I was in finance. I was in operations, marketing and sales. I did all of those things, right? He did everything. I just didn't like it. And this is something that that appealed to me. And, you know, I enjoy this. I enjoy this thoroughly, so to each his own, uh, I believe I have developed a strategy with an alpha. How would I optimize that? What do you want to optimize, like the execution, the sizing, whatnot. So we can discuss that offline, because, you know, I'll need some details. What do you want to optimize? 920, 20 straddle, the most famous, oh, my god, absolutely, how to create fixed income strategies. There's no this fixed income strategy. You know, invest in fixed income markets. No, no, there's, there's no such thing as, you know, creating fixed income strategies or work on strategies. You know, if your strategy does well, that will generate income, right? But it might have a shelf life. So there's, there's, there's no certainty in this world how to prepare to get placed in quant forms like Jane Street, etc. Oh, we do have a at quantity. We do have a career cell. So, you know, you can discuss with them. But again, I would say, you know, be thorough in in statistics. You should know how to code. I think Jane Street uses their own language to code. I don't know, but most of the you know quant firms would would test you on your statistics, probabilities and coding. How do market makers exit? Loss making trades, you know, be aggressive. Just be more and more aggressive if you want to. If I've bought at 99.3 and I cannot exit, and the market moves to 99 and I'm more and more aggressive on my sell side. In India, there are several platforms like trade drawn quantify that that allow algorithmic trading Absolutely. Would I would I suggest someone should test their hypothesis on their platforms first? Or will it be helpful for retail traders to use them instead of doing their own coding and going through the whole setup of No, I think you can code through I think you can go through them absolutely. Why do you want to reinvent the wheel? So in fact, that is exactly what I did. Right my first strategy, I leased a software from a third party vendor, implemented my strategy. It worked great for a couple of years, and then I built my own platform so it definitely works that way. Additional material, sure. So these are the references and materials that you can look at. But again, if you have so you know, high frequency trading for dummies, theory of financial risk and derivative pricing, trading in exchanges. So you know this. But again, I mean, if you, if you think that there is anything that you did not understand, please shoot me an email. I will, I will help you understand. Help you, you know, solve your credit. What is the business model of most quantum what do they offer and how do they make money from it themselves? Oh, the business model is, it's, I. A, you know, hedge it's like a hedge fund, you know, you raise money, and, you know, you take some percentage for managing the fund, and then some percentage of the profit. So this is like, you know, raising money through through equity, right? You're selling your equity because you're sharing your profits. The other model is, you know, taking debt and trading on the debt, and then, you know, making profits. So they make money through, not through profitable trades. So the business model is either the two ways, either you create a fund and then you take a fee for managing the fund and some cut in the profit, or you take debt.

Speaker 1  3:10:54  
Can I discuss how using statistics, mean of log returns, standard deviation probabilities can help you decide which type of strategy to use, trend, mean reversion, candlestick, price option, no, no. So it's, it's not that, how can you use log return and standard deviation to decide which type of strategy to use? It's which type of strategy to use would depend upon, you know back testing. So if so say, you know the moving average strategy makes money, that means that you know the market is trending, right, or at least the stock is trending more than it mean rewards. If Bollinger Bands are working for a stock, then that means, you know, the price movement is more towards mean reversion, so something like that. What kind of margin or leverage does HFT take? Oh, hfts can take a lot of margin, maybe 1020 they take a lot of leverage the statistics point require knowledge of fundamentals. No, I have no knowledge of fundamentals, and I do fine.

Speaker 1  3:12:14  
Guys. Okay, it's 715 Wow. I think we spend like, what 4045, minutes. I think I've answered most of your questions. Do Bollinger band strategy has an alpha? No, I'm not saying that it has an alpha. All I'm saying is that it's not that you can use log returns to determine whether there's a trend. I mean, you need a model to determine whether there's a trend or not. So that was my example. All right, guys, I hope I have answered most of your questions. You know, thank you so much for for your patience, for attending this lecture. I hope the lecture was clear to let me know if I can, you know, help you move forward in this field, in any way, in any way I can, right? I've gone through this. I love interacting with students. I always say this, we are together in this. Do let me know. If you have any questions, I will be more than happy to to extend any sort of help that I can. But guys, thank you so much. I think I'll take a leave now.

Speaker 1  3:13:32  
When do we see you back in the course? I my next lecture, my last lecture is tomorrow. You'll have bigger and better faculty, uh, walking through, walking you through this course then. But as I said, my relationship with you won't end there. Throughout the course, you can connect with me through your relationship manager. Once the course is over, I'll be more than happy to share my personal email and number, and we can definitely chat whenever you want. All right, thank you so much, guys, thank you. I really appreciate all your questions and the time that you are giving me to attend my lectures. I really appreciate that. All right. Guys, thank you so much

Speaker 2  3:14:28  
for this. I'll see you tomorrow with my last lecture. All right. Have a great one. Guys, see ya.

