Speaker 1  0:08  
Hello everyone. Welcome to this second, second lecture on machine learning for trading module. This is joy here, and I will be the presenter for today's class. Before we begin, can you guys please confirm if I'm audible loud and clear? It would be great if you guys can just ping on the chat, and I hope you guys can also see the screen. Yeah, perfect. Thanks guys. Thanks for the confirmation. So in the last lecture, we started the discussion about machine learning, and we begin our learning journey by defining the terms like AI, ml, DL, and then we went on to discuss what different kinds of learning tasks are available in in this field, and what we can do with those tasks, right? So those three tasks were like classification task regression and clustering, which are categorized as supervised learning and unsupervised learning. We use classification for classifying anything like observations or records or whatnot. We use regression to predict a numerical value. And then there is like third kind of task, which is clustering task, which we use to group similar instances right, and as we also learnt in the in the in the first lecture, that classification and regression, they fall under supervised learning, which means that when we want to build models which falls under supervised learning, we need to have data with target variables, right? So we also looked up, look at the sample data set, and we discussed that your data set should have target variable, or also known as the labels, in order for the in order for the model to to be supervised model, okay, unsupervised learning, models or unsupervised learning, does not have labels or target variable as such. We then went on to build our very first model, which is,

Speaker 1  2:42  
which was, based on the logistic regression. Okay, we went to the model building activity wherein we went ahead. We started with the historical data, and we then created targets. We then touched upon what is feature selection, feature extraction, okay? And we then went on to split our data sets into training and testing data sets, scaling of those features, and we discuss all those stuff in our very first model, building activity, okay? After doing all these data cleaning activity or create a creation of features and target, we built our very first model, which was using logistic regression over here, right? So we defined our model, we created it, and then we trained our model. We used dot fit method to train our model, and then we used dot predict method to generate predictions okay to generate those labels on the testing data and whatnot. We also saw how we can see the probabilities generated for each predictions using predict underscore proba method, and this is where we left our discussion in the very first lecture. Okay, we are to continue from once we build the model. How can we evaluate the model? Okay, but before we can, before we do that, before we learn how to evaluate model, I want to touch upon a specific part in this particular activity, which is this, see when we excuse me, when we trained our model. Why did we use dot fit method instead of dot train method? Okay, and so again, if we see, if we pay attention to other methods available in the psychic run library, we see that these methods are pretty self explanatory. The method names are pretty self expression. Mandatory, okay, if I want to predict, I need to use dot predict method. If I want to check the accuracy, I simply need to use dot score method, okay, if I want to check probabilities, I need to use dot proba, which stands for probability, right? So again, if these method names are quite self explanatory, then why, when we are training a model, then why does it, it is named as fit and not not trained. And to answer this, we, I have this small tool over over here with me which will answer this question quite well. Okay, so please pay attention over here. Guys, see, please pay attention to these central chart over here, you don't need to look at any any of these configurable parameters, not even at this, not even on those numbers. Just pay attention to this chart. Okay, so over here we have some data. We have scatter plot of two features, probably say on x axis and y axis. Now what happens is, when we build a model, okay? Or when I say, build model, when I when we train a model, what does the model tries to do is the model tries to represent or it tries to capture the shape of the data. Okay, it tries to fit the data. So if I if I show or if I enable the model over here, so what we see over here is there is a line, okay, there is a line which, which represents the model, okay. And this model actually tries to go through the data right now. What we see over here is that the original data that we currently have is wiggling over, like here and there it is. It is not a straight line, right? It's not. It is not something that a straight line could represent the shape of this data, right? So this is what we see, although current, the current model that we have is a straight line, but the actual data, which is

Speaker 1  7:22  
in the actual data, we can see some kind of shape, okay? So what, what we need to do is, we need to go ahead and we need to fine tune this model, okay? And now, when I say model, I am referring to this red line. The Red straight line that you guys see is, is our model. So now, when I am building models, when I am creating or when I'm training model, training my model, I need to ensure that my model can actually represent the can actually or, I would say, should fit the data quite well. Okay, so now see when I am in, when I'm changing my model parameter. Okay, now again, don't, let's not be concerned about what parameter I'm changing, what I am changing. Just understand that if I change some parameters, okay, the model shape or the or the the way the model is able to represent the data also changes. Okay. The way the model is able to represent the actual data also changes. And when the model is actually able to replicate the shape of the true data. Is the, is the model, or is the, is the ultimate stage that we want to reach? Okay? So over here, see, wait. Over here. This is straight there is this straight line, and we see that it is not passing through the data. It is not able to represent the data quite well. Okay. Now this is another model which is able to represent the shape of the data quite well, and such a model which can represent the actual data quite well. Are known as the well fitted model. Okay, the models which cannot represent the shape of the data are known as under fitted model, right? And then there are, like, another kind of model, also known as the over fitted models, which actually tries to, you know, goes through every part of the data, and as a result, what happens is like it starts wiggling more than the data, right? So when we are building models, when we are training models, what we want to ensure is that the model that we build. It should be well fitted models, okay. So why the model? Why the method name is fit? Because the model tries to fit the data. Okay, the model tries to replicate the original data. Okay. If the model is not able to replicate the original data, then we say the model is under fitted. When the model is able to replicate the actual data, we say the model is well fitted right, and when the model over tries Okay, or when the model actually tries to, like, literally take shape, or take take more vehicles or take more shape of the actual data, then we say the model is over fitted. Right? Now, these are very intuitive terms. We will quantify. How do we define under fitted model, well fitted model and over fitted model, but you guys need to understand that the models could overfit. Okay. Now, under fitting and overfitting both are bad. We usually want to have model which are well fitted, okay. Now, when we say under fitted model, it simply means that the model does not learn anything about the data, okay. When we say underfit model, the model does not learn anything about the data. And as a result, when we use under fitted model for prediction, okay, the model is good, there are very high chances that the model is going to fail, okay, and the predictions will be the predictions would be incorrect.

Speaker 1  11:44  
Likewise, when we have over fitted models right, which usually tries to just memorize the training data, okay, or memorize the data on which it was trained, but it fails to deliver. It fails to predict when we use the overfitted model on the testing data. Okay? Why? Because the the shape of the testing data might be bit different than the training data, and as a result, what will happen the over fitted model, which is just tried, which is just memorized, how the trading data looks like and how it is it will not be able to generalize the shape of the testing data right? So keep this in mind that under fitted models are bad as well as over fitted models are bad. We want a well fitted model that can generalize on multiple sets of data. Okay, so, again, these three definitions under fitted model over fitted and well fitted are something that you should be able to understand intuitively. As we will move forward, we will understand how we quantify them. Okay, so this is where we left our discussion that is fitting of the model. Okay, then predictions. Now, we also need to understand why these when we fit a model, when we train a model, why these particular characteristics, why model usually tends to be under fitted or over fitted, okay? So to answer that part, when we try to build a model, or when we try to train a model, there are two kinds of errors, okay, there are two kinds of errors that usually creeps in while we are training the model. So the first kind of mode of first kind of error that could creep in when we are building a model is known as the bias. Okay, now, what do we mean bias, or when we say at the model is biased. So whenever the model is biased, it is going to be under fitted. So when we say the model has bias, usually such models represent or they are under fitted. Okay. Now to explain this, I have another part which is like over here. So when we say the model is biased. We usually mean the mean this. Biasness refers to the property of a model which, upon training multiple times, cannot learn the association between the features and the target variable. I repeat, biasness refers to the property of the model which, upon training multiple times, could not learn the association between the features in the target variable. Okay, so we say that it is the inability of the machine learning model to. Capture the relationship between the features in the target, right? So it is akin to, you know, training a kid. So say, say, for example, if we are training a kid to recognize apples, no matter how many times did we expose the kid to the apples, every time we ask kid what this fruit is. The kid will say this fruit is orange or banana or altogether, something else, but anything but Apple, right? So this shows that no matter how many times we train a kid to identify apples, the kid is not learning that association between the fruit and the fruit name, okay? So this particular inability of learning by a model is known as bias, okay? And whenever we whenever we say the model is biased, it usually means that the model is not able to predict

Speaker 1  16:04  
what it should predict. Okay, so to give you another example, say if I train a model 100 times, and if I record all the predictions for if I record predictions for those 100 iterations, for the 100 times that I trained my model. Once I trained my model, I go ahead and predict. I another time I train my model, I again go and predict. So I train my model 400 times and I record all the predictions. Okay, now, when I take the average of those predictions and I compare it with the actual labels or actual target variable, and if I find that the average predictions from those 100 iterations are different than the actual value, then I could say that the model is biased. Okay, so this is one of the properties which, in simple words, we can say that the machine or the model is unable to learn from the data. Now it could. It could happen because of multiple reasons, like why there could be bias in the model. The model that we are using, the algorithm that we are using, might be very simple, and the data might be very complex, or we might not have enough number of observations in the data set, or the features that we have created might not be enough predictive in nature that could predict the target. Okay, so whenever a model has bias, biasness, we need to dig deeper and understand the root cause, whether the model is simpler or is there not, is there sufficient data or not, or the features are the true, are the true representative of the target variable, or not? Again, there could be, there could be many possibilities, okay, next error, that is that could creep in is variance. Now, whenever model is having variance, right, it simply means that the model is usually over fitted. Right now. What is variance? So variance is the over reliance of training data. Or I would say the we say the model is having variance when the model is over relied on the training data right now, if I change the training data of the model, the model would not be able to perform right now, which simply means that the model is simply memorizing the training data. And as a result, the model is not learning anything from that data set or from the training data set. And as a result, is not able to perform on the in the in the real time or on the test data, right? So the model has over it over resigns on the training data. Now, ideally, this should not be the thing, right? So it is akin to saying, you know, if I expose a kid with one set of apples, okay, the kid should be able to recognize other set of apples as well, right now, it is like, if I expose the kid with one set of apples, the kid will able to identify other apples, but say, after some time I replace this, replace that set of apples with another variety of apples, and then I ask the kid to go ahead and to identify a. The apples or predict apples, right? The kid will not be able to perform. So which is, which simply means that the kid has actually not learned the features or the associate the properties of the apples to be able to recognize apples in futures, right? It has just memorized. The kid has just memorized what the original set of apples look like or feels like or taste like, that's it, right? So variance is basically an error which is the sin, which represents the sensitivity of the models predictions with respect to a particular set of training data. Right now, if the model is having high variance, it simply means that the model is not going to perform quite well when it is exposed to unseen data. Right now, these are the two errors that could creep in bias and variance. Usually we want

Speaker 1  21:04  
a model with low bias, okay, and a model with low variance. This is what we want. Now, how do we how can we quantify this part? Now, when I say quantify, I'm referring to quantifying with respect to classification models, okay? So we say that any model, any model having training accuracy less than 50% okay or 0.50 we would categorize those models as having bias, okay, models having training accuracy, less than 50% are biased. Okay, simpler. Why do why do we say, why do we Why do we say this? Because 50 anything having less than 50% okay, any more accuracy, less than 50% is less than even random chance, right? So even if I have to for a binary classification issue, for a binary classification task, if I want to predict something, and even if I don't do anything, if I just like use random chances, I will still be able to, I will still be able to correct. Will be, I will still be correct 50% of the times right, and even models are not correct 50% of the times, which means the models are really bad, okay, and variance. How do we quantify variance? To quantify variance, we compare accuracies between we compare training accuracy and testing accuracy. Okay? So it simply means that if the model is able to perform on training data, okay, if the model is able to perform on training data and if the model has learned something, okay, if the model has actually learned the association between the features and the target, then it should be also able to perform on the testing data, okay? And if it can, if it performs on the testing data, the testing accuracy would be similar to training accuracy, right? But what if? What if there are models where training accuracy is say 80% and testing accuracy is just 48% okay, so over here we see that the model has been able to perform on really well on the training data, but it has not been able to, it was not able to deliver on the testing data. And we see there is a huge difference between the accuracies of the training data and the testing data. And we say that such models are such models. So like such models have variants, okay. Now, what if I have another model with something like this? Okay, over here, I would say the model does not have variance. The model is able to perform quite well, right? Because, again, first thing first it when the training accuracy is greater than 50, the model is the model is not biased. And when we compare the two accuracies over here, we see that the model is able to perform on training and testing data as well. And when we say testing data, it is the unseen data, so the model has actually learned something from the during the. Training phase, okay, so the thumb rule that I usually follow when I create models is like, if there is difference of more than eight to 10% between the training and training and the testing accuracy, I term such models as heavy variance. Okay. And whenever I build models, if the models usually if the training accuracy is in the if the training and the testing accuracies usually force or or are very similar, then I usually accept that the model is not having variance. Okay, so we introduced five terms until now. First, under fitted models, well fitted models and over fitted models, okay. How do we quantify them? How do we how do we know whether the models are under fitted, well fitted or over fitted?

Speaker 1  26:08  
We use accuracy, okay. But before to understand whether the models are under fitted or well fitted, we also need to understand what are the ways from where the errors could creep in. Right now, the errors could creep in in two forms, bias and bias and variance. The bias is basically the model's inability to learn from the training data, okay? And variance simply means the models over reliance on the training data. Okay, they are pretty simple, but very important to understand what they mean. Okay, so over here we have this bias and variance, and I also have this small chart over here, which simply represents the variance in bias in a visual like in a representable way. So what we have over here is the bullseye diagram. Now, ideally, when we predict or when we throw dots, we usually want those dots to go inside this inner circle. Okay, the gray, the circle marked with gray. Now say, if there is some untrained person who does not know how to throw charts, okay, usually says, we can term such persons having biased, right? So if such person goes ahead and tries that okay, it could mean that the person, untrained person, the person who does not know how to throw darts or how, like, what are the mechanics behind it? He might not be able to hit bullseye, even if he is able to, it would be a very rare so a mode, so the models having high bias is shows the inability or the untrainedness of the model, right? It will predict systematically elsewhere. Okay, it will, it will predict systematically elsewhere. On the other hand, if the model is having high variance, okay? So it simply means that the person who has been trained on particular that bots, okay? And if it, if the person is being now tested on another kind of dartboards, right, the person might not be able to hit the bull's eye. And as a result, the darts would be all over the places, okay? And as a and as a result, the again, the idea that should not be the case, right? If someone is trained to hit the bullseye, no matter what kind of that boat the person gets, he should be able to hit the bullseye, right? Likewise, for the models, it doesn't matter on what kind of data the model has been trained. If the more the data changes, the model still should be able to predict quite well. So that is what we see over here, in high variance, the model is not able to hit or predict quite well, right? And when we mix both, that is like the model is untrained, the model is having accuracy less than 50% and the model even performs very bad on the testing data. Then this is what happens, like the model is not able to hit anywhere near the bullseye. But again, even wherever it is hitting the the model is predicting all together, very different, all together, like some random stuff that it should not predict. Okay, so I believe we would want a model with low bias and low variance, right? Let me go through the questions that might have come my way, and then I will. To proceed further. Okay, could you please repeat eight to 10% difference between training and testing? Yes, that's true. So again, this is just my thumb rule that whenever I am building models, if my model training and testing accuracy is greater than eight to 10% then I usually consider those model to have variance right. Usually I accept within seven to 8% and anything that anything more than eight, actually 8% I would become quite, quite uncomfortable when the difference in accuracy between training and testing is more than 10% but testing accuracy is less than training accuracy. Will we still consider it has variance? Okay, when the testing accuracy? Yeah, true. So usually that would be the case manikan Then that most of the time, especially in our field,

Speaker 1  31:09  
usually you would find testing data having less accuracy than the training data. Okay, so if we go ahead and if we check these models, accuracy is over here. So I

Speaker 1  31:26  
see the training data is 56% okay, and testing it has 53% that is usually the case that accuracies on the testing data would be bit lower than the test at training data? Oh, very, good question. So someone asked, which out of this four represents under fit? Well, fit in the overfit. So, okay, this over here on the bottom, on the sorry, top left represents the well fit. Okay, this one and this one, the both the bottom ones, they would they represent the, actually, all these three represent the under fit. There is no overfit over here. Okay, there is no of it. Or we could say this could be all of it. This could be because this has a high variance, right? So, yeah, this could be all of it, but this both are definitely under it. Okay, let me see someone was saying that I was they were unable to hear me, but I believe that was for the same what are the pros and cons of each model fit type? No, there are no pros and cons as such. All we need to look at is like we need to look we need to aim for well fitted models, right? So under fitted models and over fitted models are not they usually have only cones and no problems, okay, but yeah, we can say that under fitted models are simple, over fitted models are very complex. And as a result, the because of the complexity, it might have been able to it might analyze the data

Unknown Speaker  33:23  
beyond requirement. We could say in that way.

Speaker 1  33:35  
Carlos says that bias, the model is biased and does not work in train no test that is true variance. The model performs very well in train data, but very bad in test data. Yeah, that's true. That's that's basically the essence of what we just discussed. Okay? Someone says, How do we calculate accuracy? Just wait for Okay, I will go, I will go that in the next five to 10 minutes.

Speaker 1  34:10  
Okay, great. Someone says, Can you please share model parameter link? So I believe you are referring to this part. So this is just a demonstration that I asked the code to make to explain you what over fitted and fitted in, well fitted models are I again, I just create, like I was just like, trying to explain you, and I just did it right. I don't think I had shared with anyone, if you want particular I could share no worries. But again, these are just for explanation purpose, right? Okay, great. So now that we understand fitting of the model, the biasness and the variance, now let's go ahead and let's try to do. To understand, how do we evaluate the model? Okay, now evaluating the model requires us to under Request us to have idea of three more simple aspects. So let me open my Excel over here so that I can explain those stuff quite well. So okay, for the next 15 to 20 minutes, please, guys, please pay attention over here. Okay, once we understand, once we discuss this part, I will have some questions for you, and then we will go ahead and evaluate the models. And this what we are going to what we are going to discuss now would be used throughout the next class as well. So please pay attention. So please ensure that you understand this stuff quite well, okay, and yeah, by after this, you would also be able to understand how do we calculate accuracies and whatnot, okay? So please pay attention over here. Say we have a data set that contains 1000 records, okay. Now consider, consider that this is a data set. It could be the training data set or testing data set, but we have a data set that contains 1000 records. Okay? Out of these 1000 records that we have over here, 400 records belong to class zero, okay, and the rest of the 600 records belongs to class one, right? So let me type in actual over here. These are the actual class labels. So what I'm saying over here is like we have a data set that contains 1000 records. Out of those 1000 records, we have 400 records that belong to class zero or that has label zero, and we have 600 records which has label one or that belongs to class one. So again, if I have to show you this data set, so over here, let's say we have some data set that contains such 100 reports. And if I go ahead and if I calculate the number of records having label one or class one, then we have such 600 records. And if I go ahead and if I calculate or count the number of records having label zero, then I have such 400 records in my data set, right? So this is what I have in machine learning lingo. In machine learning lingo, class one is usually referred to as positive class and class zero is usually referred to as negative class, right? I repeat in machine learning language, the class one is usually referred to as a positive class and class zero is usually referred to as negative class. Now, if I were to put context, if I were to put context in for for trading, I could say that we usually when we back test any strategy, or when we create signals, we usually use one to represent long positions, okay? And we use zero to represent no positions at all, okay, so that this could be our context, right? But remember these terms negative and positive. Class zero means negative class, and class one means positive class, and we have a data set wherein we have 600 records that belongs to the positive class and 400 records that belongs to the negative class. Okay, great, pretty simple stuff. Now see, now pay attention over here. So this is my actual data set. This is how my actual data set looks like. Okay, this is how my actual data set looks like.

Speaker 1  39:10  
Now, say I have some train model. I have I have some train model, something like this, logistic regression that we are trained last time. Okay, so I have the train model with me. I use, I use that train model, and I use that train model for predictions. Now when I predict, now when I predict, out of this 400 of records, which belongs to class zero. Out of this 400 records which belongs to class 03, 150 records are predicted as zero. Okay, 350 records are predicted as zero, and with the remaining 50 records are predicted as one. Yes, okay, I repeat. I have a trained model. I use that model to predict for prediction purpose. And when I predict, out of these 400 records, which actually belongs to class 03, 150 records were classified, were predicted is zero, and 50 records were predicted as one, okay. Likewise for the 600 records, for the 600 records, which belongs to class, 100 records were predicted as zero, and 500 records are predicted as one, okay. So what we see over here? These are the predictions. These are the predictions. Now, let me put it this way. Now see so what happened over here is this. This 350 records out of this, 400 records are identified or sorry my bed are predicted correctly, okay, and this 50 records are predicted incorrectly. Likewise. Over here, this 100 records out of the 600 are predicted incorrectly, and this 500 records are predicted correctly. Okay, so I would the Inc, so whatever number of records that have been predicted incorrectly, I will mark them with red background right now. We also know in machine learning lingo, the class zero is known as negative class, and class one is known as positive class. So this is what I have. This is what I have over here. I believe everyone of you is with me until now. Okay, so now what I'm going to do is

Unknown Speaker  42:09  
let me copy and let me

Speaker 1  42:14  
paste them. I paste it over here. Let me see questions.

Unknown Speaker  42:21  
Yeah, perfect. See,

Speaker 1  42:32  
I know this particular cell contains the number of records correctly predicted. Okay, so I am going to mark over here true. Okay, this cell contains the number of records take that are falsely predicted or that are incorrectly predicted. So I am going to mark false over here, okay, likewise over here, we would have first why? Because this particular cell contains the number of the records that that says how many records are incorrectly predicted by the model, okay? And likewise, over here it would be true, right? I hope you guys are with me until now again. This is pretty simple stuff, okay, let me again, copy and let me now move here.

Unknown Speaker  43:28  
Great, okay, great.

Speaker 1  43:34  
Now, see, pay attention over here, this particular cell has a name. Okay, each of these four cells that we see over here, they have a particular name and how these names are defined. So to understand we need to look from the Predict predictions. Okay, so this particular cell shows me the number of records, okay, which are correctly predicted as negative class. Okay, I repeat. This particular cell shows me the number of records which are correctly predicted as negative plus, and hence this particular cell is known as true negatives. Okay,

Speaker 1  44:34  
this particular cell shows me the number of records that are incorrectly predicted as negative, sorry, that are incorrectly predicted as positives, okay, and as a result, this cell would term would be termed as false positives. Okay, see, we need to look from the prediction side. Okay, so. So this cell has positive, has been labeled positive, and hence they are false positives. So this particular cell shows me the number of records which, in actual belongs to class zero, the negative class, but they have been predicted as positives, and hence they are false positives. Okay, so, in simpler words, this particular cell shows me the number of records which are falsely predict, falsely predicted as positives, and they are known as false positives. Okay, likewise, this is the number. This is the cell that shows me the number of records which have been falsely predicted as negative, and hence they are named false negatives. Okay? And this particular cell now most of you, as most of you would have guessed shows the number of records which are correctly predicted as positive, and they are actually positive, so they are known as true positives. Okay, so let me just go ahead and do

Speaker 1  46:25  
market. Okay, so positives, negatives over here. Any question, anyone with regard to, how did we arrive at true positive, true negatives and such stuff, or are we clear? If we are clear, can you please press one, or else, put in your question.

Speaker 1  46:54  
Okay, I'm just looking at the answer, looking at the responses. If there is any question, let me just go through it. Okay, great. Now, if this stuff is if the stuff is clear, let's go ahead and let's define a few formulas. Okay,

Speaker 1  47:17  
okay, the very first formula that we are going to define is the accuracy. How do we calculate accuracy? The formula is really simple. We simply sum everything up. That is sorry, we sum true positives, which is so TP stands for true positive plus true negatives divided by the sum of everything, TP true positives, just false positives plus true negatives plus false negatives. So this is how the accuracy is defined. Simply put, accuracy is nothing but accuracy is nothing but the sum of the sum of these two cells, that which are actually predicted is true predictions divided by some of everything. Okay, so we say that if our, if my model, if, if I go here, if I How did we commit 53 over here? So we say, so we say that if I had 1000 records, okay, there were 530 correct predictions made by the made made by the model. And hence the accuracy is 53% okay. See First off, so accuracy is just like, how many records are identified, are predicted correctly, okay, regardless of the classes, regardless of the classes. So over here, there is no classes such, however, however, this accuracy, okay, the accuracy that we are talking about over here is usually, is usually, I would say, not sufficient, or at times misleading, okay, or at times it is misleading. So to give you another example, so to give you, to give an example when I say the accuracy could be misleading. Say this part. Say so again, this is zero, this is one, this is zero and this is one. Okay, so again, what I'm doing over here, I'm giving an example of how the accuracy is could be misleading at times, okay, say I have another data set that contains 1000 records, okay, but this time, the distribution of the classes is. So in both of these, in both of these classes are bit different, say, for example, in x so again, this is actual data. So after this 1000 Okay, 930 records belongs to class zero, and the rest of the 70 records belongs to class one. Okay, so this is how the distribution of the records are, again, zero and one. These are the this is the actual data, okay, so what I'm saying over here is, this is how my actual data looks like. Okay, very well, the distribution of the records is not balanced, okay? Or I would say it is skewed. It is skewed to zero so there are most of the records belongs to class zero. Now, what happens like when I train a model using such data, using such such data, the model will say that. The model will say that even though I don't learn anything and I simply keep predicting 00000, every time. Okay, what does the model says is like, even if I don't learn anything, and if I simply keep predicting 0000, every time, every time, right. Without learning anything, I will still be able to I will still be able to predict 93% of the time.

Speaker 1  51:31  
Are you getting this point? If I have this kind of data with me, if I train a model, the model will see the distribution of the records, and the model will say that I don't, I don't need to learn anything, okay, even if I don't learn anything, if I go ahead and if I simply keep predicting 00000, every time, okay, I will still be able to I will still be correct 93% of the times, right? But even then, even then, let's, let's say the model put some effort to learn, and this is how the confusion matrix looks like, by the way, what we just did over here, this matrix that we see is known as the confusion matrix. Okay, the name is confusion matrix, but it really helps us answer many things about the model. Okay? It actually clears our confusion, okay, so say, if I, if I, if we have this such a data, and if we train model, and the model comes up with such kind of confusion metrics, wherein out of 930 records, 920 were predicted. Is zero. The rest of the rest 10 were predicted incorrectly. Over here, after 70, only 20 has been predicted incorrectly. The rest of the 50 has been predicted correctly. If this is the case, okay. If this is the case, we would say accuracy would be how much

Unknown Speaker  53:09  
920, plus 50 divided by 1000. Okay, the accuracy would be 97%

Unknown Speaker  53:19  
but, but? But,

Speaker 1  53:26  
if we have something like this,

Speaker 1  53:41  
right, the accuracy would be 930 plus plus zero divided by 1000 right. So over here, what we see is that even though the model has not learned anything, the model simply keeps predicting 0000, right? The models is still able to the model still has accuracy of 93% okay, and see, this kind of skewed data is really common. This kind of skewed data is really common across industries, okay? And let me show you. So this is the example. So this is the model building activity that we did last time. Okay, over here, over here, this, this was my distribution of the records. So 761 records were belonging to class one, and 749 belongs to class zero. So we want balanced data set, and our target variable over here was if the next day is an update or not. Okay? But instead of doing this. Let's say if I want to predict only days when the market or the stock goes above 5% okay, so I say that I'm going to build a model which will predict whether the next day is going to be 5% up then today. Okay, so if I simply change the rules records to be predicted, where the stock rises up by 5% if I do this, okay, I simply changed single target variable, nothing else, okay? And if I now go ahead and if I run this account again, see my data set becomes became unbalanced, okay, my data set became unbalanced. And now, if I go ahead and train this model, my model is going to always like, even if a model does not learn anything, and if it predicts zero, almost all the times, my model will still help accuracy greater than 90% right? Is this part clear? Everyone why accuracy could be misleading at times, everyone or does anyone have any question over here?

Speaker 1  56:34  
Okay, so please keep it. Please keep this in mind. Amit, what should I repeat? Should I repeat everything, or should I just repeat the last part?

Unknown Speaker  56:47  
So all I'm saying over here is, all I'm saying over here is

Speaker 1  56:56  
accuracy. Is the go to metric for us. Okay, so whenever we build any model, first, the first thing that we will check is the accuracy part, okay, but accuracy could be misleading at times. Now, in what scenarios will it be misleading in scenarios when the data set is unbalanced, okay, the distribution of the rep codes are not aligned. They are not equal, like similarly distributed. In such cases, the model or the accuracy would be very unpredictable, right? So, for example, over here, when I am predicting, when I'm creating the target variable, which will have one only when the stock rises up by 5% okay, for all other days, the target variable would be zero, right? So if I create such a target variable, and if I train the model over here, okay, where in my distribution of the target distribution of the records is like for more than 1400 records belongs to class zero, right? And there were only 46 days in my whole data set when the stock rose up by for more than 5% okay? So such a data set is unbalanced data set. Now, if I go ahead and if I train my model, if a model does not learn anything, okay? And if it simply goes ahead and like, simply predict 0000, all the time, okay, all the time. Even in that case, the model, the model accuracy would be, still be greater than greater than 90% right. I hope this part is clear, and now why this is, why this is often why this is an issue. It is an issue because see the kind of model that we are going to build, or the one that we built, right? We are particularly interested in the predictions, predictions with class one or the class positive, right? So we are going to take action, or is we defined over here, right? We are going to take action only when the machine predicts one. So if the machine says one, okay, then, then and then only, we are going to take long position if machine always tells us 00000, like, like, over here, right then we are not, we are never going to trade. We are not, we are never going to take position. And that is why it is of an issue, okay, it is why that is of an issue. Great. So if this is an issue, if this is an issue, okay, what could be done, like, why? What are the other metrics that we should use? So there are two particular metrics that we we could use to handle this issue, okay, the first one is. The first one is precision.

Unknown Speaker  1:00:07  
The precision is defined as TP, or the true positives, which is this part, okay, divided by

Speaker 1  1:00:20  
TP plus FP. Okay, so all we are saying is precision is basically true positives divided by true positives plus false positives. And what it means is very, really simple, of all positive predictions, okay, of all positive predictions that my model make, okay, how many are actually positive? Okay, so this is what the model says, right? So if I, if I, if I take, if you want to take, example, you

Speaker 1  1:01:04  
okay, if you want to take example, let me take example over here and see, usually these precisions or and the other metric that we are going to discuss. They are defined for the particular class, and usually only for positive class, okay, usually only for the positive class. So if I, if I calculate precision over here, the precision would be 500 which is a TP, right? So TP is basically 500 divided by 500 plus 50. Okay. Now if I, if I calculate over here, precision equals to how much it would be, 500 divided by 550 which is equal to 0.90 or 90% okay, so, what does it? What does precision of 90% mean? Okay, so it simply means that whenever the model predicts the market predicts the stock to go up. Okay, 90% of the time stock will go up. Okay. So this is what it simply means. So we simply say that we take this number, which is a true positive, and divided by the divided by the sum of true positive by the force positive. Okay, so it simply says that if I have a model, that model predicts, if that model has a precision of 90% then it simply means that whenever, whenever my model says that the stock is going to go up 90% of the times my model is 90% of the times the stock will go up. Okay, so this is what we have precision four, and the last metric that we have is the recall. Okay, is the recall? Now, when we say recall, the recall is defined as again, TP, which is a true positive and see this time we are only focusing on the true positives, okay, which is the positive class. So remember, I specifically mentioned that in trading, or in any other field, we usually are concerned only about the positive class. Okay, we usually are only concerned about the positive class, and that is why this both formula have positive or the TP is the center. Okay, so this time, we are going to divide it by the sum of TP plus. So again, in precision, we take we took TP and divide it by the TP plus for TP plus FP. Now we are going to go this way, force negatives. Okay, so to record for equal it would be like TP plus Fn. That is force negatives. Okay. And what it simply mean. What it means is, of all actual positives, okay, how many are predicted as positive by the model? Okay, so it also means that, like, if I have historical data, and if in the historical data, there were 600 days when the stock went up, for how many days, my model has been able to predict those 600 days out of those 600 days. Is Okay, so let us go ahead and let us take example of like, how do we calculate recall? Recall is this 500 divided by 500

Speaker 1  1:05:18  
plus, and it will come come as equal, equals to 500 divided by 600 which is like 80% okay.

Speaker 1  1:05:31  
So it simply means that whenever the stock is going to go up, okay, the model will will

Unknown Speaker  1:05:43  
detect the up movement.

Speaker 1  1:05:54  
It's not 80% right? It would be 80% of the time, okay? 500 divided by 600 it would be around 83% My bad. Okay, so we say that recall tells us like, whenever the stroke is going to go up, the model will be the model will detect that up moment 83% of the time, okay, and the precision tells us that whenever the model is going to go up, sorry, whenever the model predicts that the stock is going to go up, there are, there are really good chances of whatever number suggested by the precision that the model that the stock will go up. Okay, so these are the these are the two additional metrics that we are going to use to evaluate our model. Okay? And whenever we evaluate the model, what we would want to do is very simple. We would want these diagonal numbers, okay, we want what we would want this diagrams number to be as high as possible, right? So let me go and let me calculate the

Speaker 1  1:07:16  
confusion matrix for this particular accuracy scores for training and testing data. Okay, let me import the confusion matrix from the SK learn dot metrics sub module, right? And if I go ahead and if I print confusion matrix and see, confusion matrix takes the actual data and the predicted data, okay, the confusion metric takes actual data and the predicted data. And this is what we see over here, right? And what we see is, instead of having this diagonal terms, instead of having the numbers in this diagonal diagonal is as big as we as it could be, this particular confusion matrix has numbers higher in this column, which is something that we don't want, and we would want numbers to be higher here, if, whenever that happens, okay, the accuracy would be automatically high. Okay, the accuracy would be automatically high, right? So this concludes our discussion on confusion metrics and the metrics that we are going to use to evaluate our models. Any questions, anyone with regard to whatever we have discussed until now, let me go ahead and let me check the question, could you please suggest a book for machine learning? Yeah, I could,

Speaker 1  1:09:02  
apart from skew in the data set. Is there any other reason when the accuracy score is so on is unreliable? No, not really. Usually accuracy would be like not so reliable when the data set is data set is unbalanced, and for most part of the for the most real world models, the data set would be unbalanced, okay, so if I, if I have to give you another example, if

Unknown Speaker  1:09:34  
I have to give you another example,

Speaker 1  1:09:37  
cancer data set, Right? So if you have, like, one leg patients, and if you have, if you diagnose, most of the patients won't have cancer, only few of them would have cancer, right? Male data, like four male, right? So most of the male that comes into my inbox, most of them are spam and. Only few of them are actually legit. Male, then I'd say ATM transactions, or the banking transactions, most of the transactions are not fraudulent, and only few of them are fraudulent. Okay? Likewise, so the world is full of these uncertainties and this skewness, so most of the time, we need to first understand the data quite well, right?

Speaker 2  1:10:35  
Yeah, okay. Do so

Speaker 1  1:10:47  
someone says, Could you please take real time, tactical trading example and explain this is what this is, real and practical example, right? This is for this talk data that we have, and we computed the metrics from confusion, metrics for the real data that are the real model that we built.

Speaker 1  1:11:10  
How do we solve for data set for skewness? Usually, there are methods which will which exist for the to convert unbalanced data set into balanced data sets. Very frankly, I'm not fan of, or I'm not inclined towards any of those methods. Rather, I would go ahead and I would use precision and recall. Okay, so whatever, whatever techniques that exist to convert unbalanced data sets into balanced data sets. They would, they would usually imply techniques like introducing repetitive data or removing the unbalanced data set, or it could be like putting some same repetitive data set from the under under class, or direct the class which has the fewer records again, but again, to be very honest, I am not particularly inclined towards any of those methods. I would rather go ahead and would pay attention to precision and recall. Okay, great. So this is what we had for in store for the confusion matrix. So let's do one thing. What we see over here is that the confusion matrix is we learned should have higher numbers in the diagonal term, right? But we don't have it. Okay, we don't have it. So let's go ahead and let's say like, let's assume for a moment that this, let's assume for a moment that this particular confusion matrix, which has, which does not have these higher accuracy is could be due to, could be, could be due to incorrect selection of the algorithm. Okay, incorrect selection of the algorithm. So what if we go ahead and change the data set? So change the algorithm. Okay, so one of my hypothesis is that on this whatever data set that we are using this particular algorithm is not suitable or is quite simple enough to detect the complex patterns between the features and the target variable, and as a result, we are getting like such low accuracies, and We are not getting, like, higher numbers in the diagonal term. So my hypothesis is like, Okay, let's go ahead and let's change the algorithm altogether, and then, and then we'll see, we'll compute all these things again, and we'll see, like, how, how those two models look side by side. Okay, so let's go ahead and let's learn another classification algorithm, which could also be used for the regression, okay, which could also be used for the regression. And the name of that algorithm is the decision trees. Okay, is the decision trees. So let us go ahead. Please pay attention over here, guys, over here, we will understand how the decision tree algorithm works, and then we will move on to the Python model building activity. Okay, so before we go on to like model building activity, it is empirical to understand how the algorithm works, okay, so please pay attention over here, right? So now again, see this is one of the algorithms that are widely used in the industry, and you pretty much find in almost every applications, right? So make sure that you understand, like what this algorithm is about, right? Great. Over here, what we do is, or Essentially, what this decision tree algorithm tries to do is it simply try. Is to break down, break down the original data set. Okay, it simply tries to break down the original data set, which contains the records of both classes, zeros and ones in two subsets. Okay, into into sub data sets, or the subsets such that those subset contains only records of single classes. I repeat, what this algorithm tries to do is it, it try it takes the original data set, okay, which contains the mix records of that belongs to class zero and class one or the positive class in the negative class, and it tries to break down, break down that data set into multiple subsets such that each subset only contains records belonging to only one of the classes. Okay, either zeros or ones. So say, oh, here we have 100 we have a training data set that contains one 1000 records. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:16:14  
and the data set looks like this, right? So, okay, this is the data set that we are referring to. So consider that this data set has 1000 records, and we have this, we have this data is training data. Now what it tries to do is it simply tries to find that one condition based on which the data could be broken down. Okay, the decision tree algorithm simply tries to find these condition based on which the data set could be broken down. So it goes through the whole data set, and then all the features of all the data like of the whole data set, and then it comes up with this particular condition, which is like, if the moving average of 15 is greater than 175 for all true, for all records where the condition is true, those records will Go in this particular subset, and all the records where this condition is false will go in this subset, okay. And now over here we have two subsets, which is like the one subset contains 700 records and another subset concourse, the same process is again repeated, okay, the same process is again repeated for each of these subsets, and it will come up with another conditions, like standard deviation of five less than three. Okay. So over here, it will come up with another condition of standard deviation five less than three. And for this subset, the condition could be different. Okay. For this particular subset where the standard deviation of five is less than three, again, if whatever condition, whatever records that are true, will be classified as Class zero, and where this condition does not satisfy all those records will be classified as one. Okay. Likewise, for another subset that we had over here, over here, it uses another feature see. So for all three conditions, the feature, the features that have been selected are different. It could happen that it could possibly pick up the same feature, but the number the condition could be different. Okay, so over here, it selected a volume moving average of four greater than 600,000 and if the condition is true, then it will be identified class zero and one. Okay. Over here, over here, we started with something known as the root node. Okay, we started with something known as the root node, which is the whole data set. And from that whole data set, we the algorithm came up with this particular condition that broke down the data set into two parts, okay. Then out of the root nodes. What we have are the branches out of the root node. What we have is the bra what we have are the branches, okay, and then we have the decision nodes, okay, so the branches also have the decision nodes, wherein decisions are taken, and then the data flows down the tree, okay, the data flows down the tree, and ultimately, at the end of the tree we have the leaves. Okay, so decision tree is an inverted tree, right? Wherein the we take very first decision at the root node, then the. Branches, and the decisions are taken along the nodes, and ultimately we reach to the leaves. Right now, this is how the training happens, okay. But again, if this is so, like, if this particular algorithm is just a subset, is just selecting this, if conditions, where does machine learning happening? Here, right. Where does like these conditions are right. So the machine learning happens in the selection of these conditions. Okay. The Machine Learning happens in the selection of these conditions. So there are two concepts that are used, Gini, index and entropy. These are, like, quite sophisticated, my bad. These are quite sophisticated concepts that

Speaker 1  1:20:57  
that could be used to come up with these conditions. So this decision tree algorithm could, like would come up with these conditions on their own. We just need to mention which of these criteria should we use? Should we use either Gini index or entropy? Okay, like is, and as I mentioned in the very first class that we are not going to dive deeper into these mathematical aspects of like how this index is calculated and why, how this entropy calculates the like logos of what class it should go and should not go. We are not going to go into those aspects right now. You can again, I could share it like references if you want, but this is what we need to understand, right? So, this is what we have now, usually what happens is, again, for those who are curious, I can, I could give you a brief So entropy or Gini index, regardless of what approach do we use whenever we have a data set, a data set with mixed records, okay? When I say mixed records, I am referring to records with both classes, okay, these classes are such data sets are usually known as impure data sets, okay? Impure data sets, and this is particularly true for the tree based algorithms. Okay, are particularly known for the right now, say, for example. So again, what kind of data set it could be? It could be data set that lies fixed. If, when we use either of these two concepts, Gene index or entropy, what they try to do is they just try to filter records based on some conditions, like these conditions, okay, from and they try to create somewhat pure data sets, okay? They would try to create somewhat pure data sets, right? And this pure data sets would would have less mixed records. So what do I mean is, let's say if this mix, if this data set with mixed records has data sets with, let's say 500 500 Okay, find it class 05, 100, class one, okay. Over here it would be, it would be something like this. It would be like 501 100. Okay, so this could be possibly say this part this data set, okay, wherein, out of this 700 observations or 700 records, 500 would belong to class one, and 200 would belongs to class two, so And after again, like after second condition, right? This would be splitted this way, something on those lines, right? So again, this is what this these are the two concepts that are used in like under the hood of this decision tree algorithm, right now, once the data, once, once the model has been trained, okay, how? How does, how does prediction happen? So, for prediction to happen, we would have this trained tree with us. We would have this trained tree with us, wherein we already know these conditions, wherein we already know these conditions. So now, whenever the new data comes or the new record comes in, we would first check this particular condition based on whatever the condition is, true or false, okay, the data or the record will move towards that branch. Then the next condition will be checked, which is standard deviation of five. And based on the result of this condition, either true or false, the record will be predict. Is class one or class zero. Okay, so decision tree algorithm is really simple algorithm wherein it simply tries to break down the original data set into smaller subsets, each with a single set of classes. Okay, okay, great, let me go ahead and let me see the questions, and then we can go ahead and we can move forward.

Speaker 1  1:25:36  
Okay, why is true? Subset classified is class zero and not one, no, no. This is for like, simplicity purpose, or the understanding purpose. We will see actual, actual tree being built in the Python, color in the Python, note book, money, content. But again, this is just like it could happen, right? It could happen when the tree is being built, the true branch goes to class one and the false branch goes to class zero. It could happen out of Gini and entropy. Which one should we select for prediction and financial time series? We could use either. Genie is used most of the time for financial time series, but entropy is again at times, entropy also gives really good results. But again, Jenny is the go to part. Someone says, voice is not clear. I am of the opinion that it would be at the at your end.

Speaker 1  1:26:40  
Do let me know if, if not, if none of you are able to hear me out, could you please suggest a book for MIT two? There is, there is no, in particular, no such book for these classes, but you could refer to the machine learning for trading book being published by my able colleagues, Ishan and rakit. They do contain some of the stuffs that we some of the stuff that we discuss here. Is it possible to derive probability or reliability for classification, the forecast done by the decision tree? Nikolai for decision tree, yes. For decision tree, yes, the extension of the decision tree that we are going to discuss after the break for it usually no. Okay, so let's do one thing. It's appropriate time that we take a small break. After the break, we'll come back and we'll discuss more about the decision trees. And then once we discussed it on the decision tree, we'll move on to the Python part and see like how it could be implemented. So on my screen, it is 528 let's move let's reconvene at 539 Right. Cool so.

Speaker 1  1:38:58  
Okay, all right, so it is the time we reconvene. Okay? Could someone quickly confirm if I am audible?

Speaker 1  1:39:15  
Great, thanks. Gaurav, so any questions anyone with regards to whatever we have discussed until so far, or are we good? If we are good, please mention else. Please put in your query. If we are good, then we can move towards the Python building activity using

Speaker 1  1:39:51  
so Zubin, I believe you want me to repeat this part, right? I.

Unknown Speaker  1:40:02  
Okay? So as we discussed, see, we did not specifically

Speaker 1  1:40:10  
discuss entropy or gene index. What we discussed is like, how those conditions, based on which the data sets are going to be splitted, are arrived at? Okay? So intuitively, what happens like, regardless of what approach do we use, either gene index or entropy. Under the hood, the decision tree algorithm is going to look at data sets with mixed record, okay, when and when I say mixed record I am referring to record. I am referring to a data set, which referring to data set containing records with both classes zero and one as a impure data set. Right now, the job of this gene index, or the entropy index, is to go through all the features, okay, and go through all the values of these features right, such that, such that, based on if we select a particular condition, okay, if we select a particular feature and a particular value of value from that feature, and If we try to split the data set based using that condition, okay, how pure subset is going to be created. And when we say pure subset, what we are, what do we mean by the pure subset is like the pure subset contains majority of the records from one class and very few records from another class. Okay. So for decision tree algorithm, a pure data set is a data set that contains only records of one class, either of the class, okay. And impure data set contains records of both classes. So the idea behind decision tree algorithm is to come up with such a condition right that will split the data set with impure records, and it will create subset with pure records. Right now, either we use Gini or entropy, they both tries to achieve the same thing using different parts. Most of the time, people use Gini index. However, in certain industry and in certain specific use cases, entropy is also used right now, entropy is is entropy and Gene index. They just basically give you different kind of direction to go at the same destination. Okay, but again, they both are going to be used in like for so regardless we what we use, we are going to reach the same stock, same state, great. Okay, let's move on to the model building activity. So over here in this activity as well, we are going to keep pretty much the same stuff as we did in the previous example, in the previous trial. So over here, we are going to predict whether the next day is going to be an update or not, just like how we did with the previous algorithm, so that we can compare our results. Okay? So we will begin by importing all necessary libraries over here and the same data set that we had used in the previous model activity in the model, so the shape of the data over here is going to be somewhere above 1500 right now I am going to create the target variable. And to create the target variable, what is our problem at hand here? We want to build a model that could predict whether the next day is an update or not. Okay, so that is what we want to predict. Over here we say, and to predict that part we are going to use whether the next days return are positive or not, if the next is written, which we can extract by using shift minus one. If we use Shift one, then we are going to refer then we will refer to previous day return. Over here we are using shift minus one, which will give us the next day's return. Okay, so the returns from today's close to the next day's close is given by shift minus one. So whenever we use Shift minus one, we are going to get next is written. And if the next day is written is greater than zero, which means the stroke went up the next day. Okay, we would be labeling those records with one, right, and that would be our target variable. So. And if I check the distribution of the records in my data set, it it looks like a balanced data set, okay.

Speaker 1  1:45:10  
And now you know, like whenever you create a target variable, you need to check the distribution of the records, and based on the distribution of the records, you can get to know what metrics to look at. Okay, if you have unbalanced data set, you the accuracy won't matter much. You need to use other metrics, as we discussed, like, like, few minutes ago. Okay. Next coming to the feature selection in the extraction, I am going to keep it the same again. I am not going to repeat this part. We discussed this in quite detail last time here, I am going to create features. So the first set of features are going to capture the volatility in the prices. The next set of features are going to capture the trend in the prices. The third set of the features are going to capture the momentum in the prices, and then we have two standard features over here, one that captures the trend in the volume, and other captures the intraday movement. Okay, so these are going to be my features, and these are my feature list. Now, when I study like, okay, when I study the my data set, I get to know that there are some null values that got incorporated when I created those features. So I need to delete those null values, because none of the algorithms work with null values, right? So I'm going to go ahead and I am simply going to drop or remove those null values, and this is how my final data set looks like, right? Great. Once my data set is created, I am going to split it into training and testing data sets, and to do that, I am going to use the train test split method from the scale and dot model selection sub module, okay, and it will give me four parts, X, train X, test y, train y, test okay. I am going to use 25% of the original data set. Is the test size, is the is the size of the test data set, and I'm going to use the remaining 75% for my training part, okay, which gives me the a bit more than 1100 records in my training data set, and almost, almost, almost, somewhere around like 350 plus records in my testing data set. Okay. Now sometimes it also becomes important to check the balance of the testing data set. Okay. And if we see over here, my after splitting the data set, after splitting the data set, the distribution of the records in the test data set is also should be balanced, okay? And however, it is seen that there are some instances where because of incorrect splitting, For whatsoever reason, okay, For whatsoever reason, if you have kept for true over here, or if you have some like, somehow the splitting is not done properly, then it could become, it could it could be possibly, could possibly happen that your original data set was balanced data set, but your test data set is not okay, and even in that case, If the balance data set is not proper. The predictions might again, the algorithm will predict, but again, it could happen that the accuracy would not be the correct measure, correct metric to measure. Okay, so also, we need to keep this in mind, like we need to check what is the distribution of the test data set as well. Okay, once we have splitted the data set, we can go ahead and we can define the model, which is the and to define the model, we import decision tree classifier from SK learn dot tree sub module, okay, that is, that is it. Once we do that, we can go ahead and we can define the model. And while defining the model, what we are providing over here is we are providing the criterion to be used. That is like how the data set should be splitted. So to split the data set, we are using the genie index is the criterion. What we are saying next is the tree that should be built, okay, the tree that should be built and grow should grow only up to three branches. That is, it should go only up to three depth. The tree should not go infinitely. That the tree should not grow infinitely, okay? And then we have random. State to ensure reproducibility.

Speaker 1  1:50:04  
So we can use any integer number that we would like, but again, ensure that you use the same integer number again and again. Okay. So over here, we are using Gini index to as the criterion to decide the splitting we just want. We want the height of the tree to be limited to three depth, and then we would want to fit it Okay, so let me go ahead, define the model and train it over here. Okay, and my model has been trained great. So as we see over here, the benefit of using scikit learn library is that we just need to create a model, and the rest of the stuff remains the same. That is fitting of the model, the prediction of the model and whatnot, right? Let me go ahead and let me predict on my training data. See, at this point in time, I am still on the training data, okay, so the training data, so the accuracy and training data is 57% okay, and the accuracy on testing data is 50% so by looking at this, I have two question for you, two questions for You guys. My first question is, is this model biased? Is

Unknown Speaker  1:51:30  
this model biased?

Speaker 1  1:51:38  
Okay, this takes 10 seconds or so. No, the model accuracy is not random. Here. Does

Speaker 1  1:51:51  
this my second question to you guys is, does this model have variance? Oh, I said anything less than 50% so fifth point five is random, and anything less than 50 is biased, right? Yeah, so yeah, you are you guys are correct. So the the model is not biased. Why? Because, as per the thresholds that we decided it is above 50% right? And the we, we do see a bit of variance over here, because, when it, because, again, like when the the difference is not that significant, the it's only 7% but it's 7% and it is going up at 50% right? Yeah. So, so this was yeah, you are correct in that case. So someone is asking, someone is asking, Are you teaching MLT one and MLT 02, yeah. So, because, again, earlier, when we started this lecture series, I used to cover too many things just in first class. Then over time we again, is we got to know the pace of the class and what not. So again, I have, I haven't changed the name, but again, yeah, this is something that we didn't cover in the MLT 01 right? So if I had also covered this part in MLT 01 you could basically guess, right, like how tight it would be and how much I need to rush on. Okay, yeah. So before answering Carlos your question, I have another question for you guys, by looking at what we did over here, by looking at what we did over here, do you guys feel something off compared to the previous activity that we did? Do you guys feel something off over here in this activity? Are you guys sensing something like, Did we miss anything over here again? Go ahead and try to compare these, the steps, the steps that we did over here and the steps that we did in the previous activity. Are we? Are we? Are we? Did we miss anything? No, I mean, so we'll come to that part. We haven't evaluated model yet. We will come to we did predictions, right? Manikan, then we did predictions. Over here, only one of the students, one of the students, have able to see, no, we did split, right? So we even, like we didn't do stratified stratified split in the previous as well. No. Vira, we did calculate accuracy, right? Exactly, yep. So manikan, then you got it. We did not scale features over here. See after splitting all. Of our data after splitting data sets, we directly went on to defining the model and fitting it okay, if we go ahead and see here, okay, after, generally, after splitting the data set, we did scale the feature over here, okay, so over here, in this particular decision tree algorithm, we don't need to scale our features, okay, that is one of the really big pros of using tree based algorithms. The tree based algorithms could be used on the raw data and why? And one of the reasons why it is so popular among the ML practitioners is like it really saves much time in the production. Okay, so just consider that you have decision tree algorithm in the production, and you really have huge amount of data coming in all the time, and you want to predict in real time right now, scaling of features or converting data from one part, like from one form to another form always, is always going to take some computing power and time, okay? And decision tree does not require that part, which makes these algorithm really super fast and super fast to train first and super first to predict as well. Okay, so why you would like when you go and when you try to search for literature on machine learning, you would almost find that okay for 50% of the time practitioners have spent time researching and writing on decision tree and random forest, and the rest of the 50% would be on some other data on would be on some other algorithms.

Speaker 1  1:56:52  
This is the one very big advantage that the decision tree algorithm provides us, is that we don't need to scale features, okay, so keep this in mind. And likewise, as we see over here, our two example over here also use the same values over here, 600,001 75, three, and what not, right? So, yeah, keep this in mind, and like we should know, right? Like when we are building our data set, we are building a model we need to keep, what are the limitations that we would be having in production, and for under what scenario, like whether this model will be able to perform well in the in the real time or not, right? So we need to do that part. Cool, great. Thanks, Carlos for noting this out like for noticing this out before even I mentioned about it. Yep, thanks.

Speaker 1  1:57:59  
Okay, great. So now we train the model. We calculate the calculated the accuracy. Let's go ahead and let's check something like, let's evaluate the model. Okay, and over here, I just want to check the so I just talked about the pro of the pros of the this model, right? But let me also talk about the cones of this decision tree. Okay, see over here, this depth part, okay, okay, let me. Let me do one thing. I will come to this depth part after explaining something else. Okay, so if I evaluate the model over here, 5758 This is how the confusion matrix looks like, which is very similar to what we have over here, right? So we have, like, be higher numbers in the this column, rather than on the diagonal part, and that is what we also have over here, right? So again, nothing much of nothing changed much regardless of the algorithm. So one thing that we could conclude over here is this, regardless of what algorithm we we use, logistic regression or or decision tree, the results that we got are almost identical. So we can say that both algorithms are quite sophisticated. There is something else over going over here which is not giving us the desired results. Okay, so this is the this is one of the conclusions that we can make over here. Okay, keep this conclusion in the back of your mind. We will revisit it in few minutes before that, let me go ahead and let me try to visualize the tree. Okay, let me try to visualize the tree. And to visualize the tree, I can go ahead here, and I can import this plot tree method from the SQL learn dot a tree sub module, and this is how the tree looks like. Okay. And remember, when we. Were training this tree, we gave the depth to be three. So this is depth one, okay, this is depth two, and this is depth three, right? So, again, we restricted that, okay, the tree should not grow beyond depth of three, okay, this is our root node. These are the branches. So someone did the question like, why did we label branch true as class zero, like again forces one. So you could see it depends on again. How the algorithm is defined by these particular package that we are using accordingly, it will specify the classes, right? So over here, the true is class one over here, which is opposite from what we were discussing, right? And what we see over here is like it says that these were the number of total records in our original data set, the training data set, out of which these many records went this side, the remaining 78 went this side. And this was our first condition, Ma, of 25 okay, this is another condition, another feature, third condition. And likewise, and these are the leaves, okay, these are the leaves over here, right? So, this is the actual tree that got trained by the decision tree, algorithm, right, great.

Unknown Speaker  2:01:50  
Let me close it and let me

Unknown Speaker  2:01:58  
okay

Speaker 1  2:02:00  
now see, even though, after changing the algorithm, we see the testing accuracy is not that great, right? It just fail. It is. It is almost random. Okay, so one of the important methods that this particular algorithm provides. Is this okay? Which is we can check, what are the what are all? What are the old features that this particular algorithm used to come up to make predictions, okay, and to plot. We can use this model dot feature importances method, and we can see what all features have been used to make predictions. And this is what we see right out of whatever features that was that were available. It only used these five features right close to open, moving average of 1525, only moving average of four and standard of standard deviation of five. And what we see over here, this particular algorithm missed out on other features that could be important or that could have more predictive power compared to these features. Okay, do you agree with me over here, like this particular feature, this particular algorithm, Mr. Missed out on many of these really important features that could predict the target variable in in much more sophisticated way than the one you once used over here. And this is the the key limitation of this particular algorithm, in a sense that even though we gave 10s of features over here, it just used only a selected few, right? So what could be done? What could be done over here? Another what we could do over here so that all the features are used, is that we go ahead, we go ahead and we increase the depth of the tree. Okay, if we can increase the depth of the tree, if I go ahead, if I increase the depth of the tree from three to six. Okay, let's see what happens my model. I define the model, I train the model, I predict on the training data, I calculate the accuracy, and I see there is increasing the accuracy. Okay, expected, right? Because the tree grow, the tree grew, and as a result, it would be able, it would have been able to predict much more, in much more sophisticated way, in a sense, okay, let me go ahead and let me print or let me predict on the. Test data set and see the accuracy over there. And what we see here is that instead of increasing the accuracy on the testing testing data, it got decreased from 50% it become 49% okay, so what issue? What issue do you guys see over here? What issue do you guys see over here?

Speaker 1  2:05:31  
Yes, deep. So do you see that part over here?

Unknown Speaker  2:05:49  
Anusha, it's not only accuracy.

Unknown Speaker  2:06:00  
Guys, please check the please check this part. The definition of bias, is this part?

Speaker 1  2:06:18  
Okay, so over here, yes, as almost all of you have correctly, Saeed, by increasing the depth of the tree, the model became over fitted. Okay, the model became over fitted. Do we see bias here? Do we see bias here? Do

Speaker 1  2:06:50  
do you see? Do you guys see bias, like whether the algorithm is biased to you?

Speaker 1  2:07:01  
So again, let me answer. Let me ask this way, does this algorithm or does this model biased? Is biased?

Unknown Speaker  2:07:13  
No, right?

Speaker 1  2:07:15  
So Zubin, no, this model is not biased. See, the definition of bias says that models having training accuracy less than 50% we don't mention anything about the testing accuracy over here. Okay, so anyone saying that the model is biased? No, the model is not biased. The model is having low bias, high variance, absolutely correct Anusha, so model is not biased. Model is having high, high variance, right? Why it is having a high variance, because it does not fall, because it does not fall in our threshold criteria. Okay, so this is one of the very known case of decision tree that when we when we go ahead and when we try to increase the depth of the tree, okay, as we did over here, from three to six, what happens is the model becomes highly over fitted. Okay. Model simply keeps on memorizing. Okay, the model, the model, the models will be having, will have variance, right? And if I go ahead. Now, if I, if I, if I check confusion matrix, the confusion matrix would be much, much, much worse. Okay, see, it's much worse. Now, everything is like, don't take position, don't take position. Don't take position. I won't be visualizing the tree because I don't have enough space for the tree to go to the six levels. But if I go here, and I would what I would be able to do here is, if I see now, see, by just increasing the depth of the tree, we are able to we are able to make algorithm use almost all the features that we have over here, right? But at what cost, we have been able to incorporate almost all features that we have, but if we do that, the model became over fitted, which is something that we don't ever want, okay, which is something that we don't ever want. So, so what is the, what is the way around? What is the what like? What could be done over here? Like to such that we can incorporate all the features without the model being over fitted, okay? And that is where another algorithm, known as random forest, comes into picture. Okay, so until now, we have been only training a single tree, a decision a single decision tree, the concept over here is very simple. Instead of training such single tree, you. We train multiple such trees. So instead of training one decision tree, we would now train 100 decision trees, okay, and all of those trees would split data in different ways, okay, would split data in different ways, such that all the features are going to be utilized now, and we will still be able to control the depth of each of those trees. Okay, we would still be able to control the depth of each of those trees. And as a result, what will happen? We would be able to control over the overfitting part. So instead of increasing the depth of the single tree, we would restrict the depth, but we will train multiple such trees, okay? And when we are going to predict, we will predict using all those 100 trees, and we will then take majority voting of when we when we do the prediction. So if there are 100 trees, we go ahead. We predict if out of 100 trees, 75 trees says that the market is going to go up, we will consider the market is going to go up, and we will not consider the rest of the 25 so we will consider the majority voting. Okay, so it is 5149 even if 51 trees says the the stock is going to go, we will consider that part. Okay. So the random forest model is an extension of the decision tree, wherein we consider we will we still go ahead and we still train the decision tree itself, only, but in numbers. Okay, so let, let me go ahead and let me import the Random Forest classifier, or the random forest algorithm from the SQL and dot answer on symbol sub module, Okay, over here, n estimators simply refers to the number of trees. Okay, max depth simply, you know guys, it is like the number of the number of levels the tree can grow. Okay, the criterion is Gini, and the random state is 42 again, I could put anything over here, right? Let me go ahead and let me predict on the

Speaker 1  2:12:17  
training data. And I see on the training data, it is 70% right. And if I go and if I check on the testing accuracy, it is 50% so what I see over here is it is still over fitted, okay, so if I go ahead and if I change the next steps, let me check what happens? No. So what we see over here is, even with 100 trees, even with a depth of tree, when we increase the number of trees, the model is getting highly over fitted. Okay, the model is getting highly over fitted. And this is something that we don't want, right? What we see over here is, well, it is using all the features available, but again, the output is not still something is still not something that we would want. Okay? So it simply says that we are controlling the depth of the tree in some way, right? We have increased the number of trees, but still it is overfitting right. Then it disappear that the features that we have been using until now, okay, the features and the target that we have been using until now is the one that we could look at. Rather than change just keep on changing the algorithms. Okay, rather than just keep on changing the algorithms, because this is a third model wherein we are getting, like, again, accuracies in the range of 6065 and the algorithms are getting quite over fitted, so let me go ahead and let me change these to entropy, and let's see how it works. Okay, so the criterion, by default, is Genie. Let me go ahead and let me use entropy over here, and let me see if it makes any difference. It is still 64 it is still 47 Oh, so entropy, the the the things become worse, okay, so the idea over here is, even though we have only 100, if I change model to 50, will it make any change with no, it is not making any, right. So again, something is very i. Something is very off with the data that we might be using. Right. Note that these algorithms are not true, not good, but this is something that we would often run into when you start building your models in like in real world. And these are very, very real things, right, which will force us to look at how we have structured our data, right? So this is not something that comes abruptly. This is all plant, like, what we what these numbers do we see? These are all plant to expose you guys to understand, like, the kind of data that we are going to work with is not going to be the cleaned in the in the end, in the in the workable data. We need to work with it. We need to put in this, put it in the structured way. Okay, so let me go through the questions, and then we'll jump back to this discussion again. Okay, could you simply output of the decision tree. I believe Shreyas You mean like, Could I simply show the output of the decision tree? If we want to see the output of the decision tree, all we could do is we could go ahead and we could print these predictions right. These are zeros and once? Yeah, so Carlos has made a really good point, which is the predictive power of the price levels of the moving average is usually close to none. It would be more interesting to do with price divided by the moving average, which is the ratio the way you have that way you have meaningful feature that tells you how over both or oversold the current price is when compared to its own moving average. Yes. Thank you, Carlos for this wonderful thought, and that is one way of creating these features. But as I just mentioned, right,

Speaker 1  2:17:00  
currently we are in the learning phase, so I want, I need to show stuff that, what that what doesn't work, okay? Is it possible to code decision train? Spider, yeah, of course. Why not? You can replicate all whatever, or whatever code that we are seeing over here in spider. It works exactly the same way when we train multiple trees, how do we check the overlook the overlapping of features used? No, we can't, unfortunately. So that is no, that is the limitation of the package that we use. It won't. What if the stock goes down or stays flat, even though the random forest model says that the stock will go up. Yeah, that could happen. That could happen all the time, right? And that is what we learned over here. So, so what you just mentioned shares is this particular feature. Is this particular part, right? First positive. So first positive simply means that the model is telling you that the stroke will go up, but the mode, but the stroke did not go up, right? So it is akin to saying that the patient has a cancer, but in reality, the patient does not have a cancer. Okay? It means false positive. So that is why we use recall and precision when we are really concerned about any particular case, right? So in this case, when you say, What will like, what if? Okay, if we want to do that, we could look at precision. So if my precision is high, then it simply means that whenever my model tells me that the stock is going to go up, and if the precision is really high, if the precision is really high, then I would have, like, really good confidence in my prediction. Is my prediction, my confidence in prediction would be very low, and I could see that like we could we, could we, we could visualize this from here. See if I go ahead and if I print the classification report, it will show us the precision and recall, okay, and see over here, the precision of class one is just 48% which simply means that whenever my model tells me that the stroke is going to go up. I am just 48% confident, okay, and I could print it class. I could print classification report of with literally any algorithm. Okay, see so over here as well, the precision is just 52% okay. However, the recall, okay, the recall is not that important at this point in time. But, yeah, so what you, what you said, could happen, and happens all the time, right? And this means that we need to work more on this particular part like that is like, how, how this algorithm could. To work, or what kind of features, what more features could be built? Or is there, like, do we need to have, like, a bigger data set? We are just training our models on, like, just 1500 records, which is literally nothing, okay? So these are the questions that we need to ask ourselves and cater to them one by one. Okay, great. Why can't we use agentic AI for training and testing? We can write nothing. There's nothing stopping us from using agentic AI from training and testing. This part, however, the very much cone of using agentic AI is that, if we don't understand what is correct and what is not, agentic, AI is almost useless in those terms, right? If I, if I myself, don't know what, what do I mean by precision or what like like, whether the precision is good for my model or for my activity or not, I will, like agent AI is not going to help me. It will not. The agent AI will not, will not be able to answer what is, what is correct for me, what is not, but yes, agentic AI will can build the whole model for you. Okay, if I go ahead and if I simply ask the model, okay, here's my training data. It contains features and this target, go ahead and build the decision tree algorithm. It will, okay, it will. I'm not saying that it will. It won't it will, but the

Speaker 1  2:21:40  
inferring part okay, like whether should I use that model being built by the agent AI is up to me, and I need to decide whether whatever results that it got right is true or not, because agentic AI, at the end of the day, does not have any context for that particular system. Everything is just numbers, okay? So it won't be able to come up with those predictive features like Carlos mentioned, right? So car like, again, and this is what we discussed in our first lecture as well. Like someone asked, like, if everything is to be done by us, like, Where does machine learning happening? So the machine learning is really happening in the creation of features and coming up with the target variables and whatnot, right? So, yeah, so this is something that we need to keep in mind. This is where the difference comes into picture. Okay, aren't random forest and Decision Trees naturally more over fitted compared to standard regression, yes, absolutely, absolutely, they are. They are. And again, one of the things that we need to be very careful and cautious with the tree based algorithms are like they are prone to overfit. They are prone to overfit so many practitioners, what they do is they also try to combine multiple algorithms. They try to they say they will have random forest, and whatever the predictions are being by made by the random forest, they will combine them with regression based or some other kind of algorithm, and then they will basically take the XOR of the X and Y kind of stuff, and they will make, they will basically take it with the pinch of salt, in a way. Apart from this lecture, due to recent AI, is in the agent? Is it help? Does? Sorry, apart from this lecture, due to recent AI agents. Is it help quant trader or threat to us? So in my so to be, to be ruthlessly honest with you, I haven't seen quants using agentic AI for the trading they they have incorporated things heavily in the research part. Okay, so again, something that I just mentioned, right? Like, and this is what even I do, if I have something, if I want to create some simulations, if I if I want to run some I'd say, if I have some data, if I want to create some distributions, I do agent take AI all the time, okay? I do simulations all the time using agent AI, but when it comes to implementing them, I often do it myself, okay? Or rather, I would build a model by myself, and then I would fit this model to the agent AI, and ask the agent a system to improvise on that part. This way, I will be I will know that whatever I did, the base system is correct. Okay. And as the base system is correct, whatever newer things that are added by the agent, AI would be just like the cherry on the cake kind of stuff. Okay, so if I don't like them, I would simply discard those parts, but I but the base system is still correct and I know how to work with them. Okay? What if precision, recourse scores vary a lot? Please explain they won't usually. So if they, if they vary a lot, that is also okay. So if, if, as we discussed over here, as we discussed over here, right? Usually they they usually work in sync, because if the model is really good right, then precision is also going to be quite high, and the recall is also going to be quite good. But if they do vary, if they do vary, then it, it gives an indication, in a sense, that whatever model is being able to predict if the issue if the precision is quite high, the model is being able to predict those rare cases really well, okay, and if the recall is really high and the precision is bit Lower, okay, then you could say that for whatever historical data that you have been using, your model has learned really well, okay, your model has learned really well, such that it has been able to obtain recall, so that your model can do right. So this happens in medical industry a lot, right?

Speaker 1  2:26:42  
If there is a data set of cancer persons, okay, people would often try to build multiple models, one with really good recall and another with really good precision, right? So if you if you want to understand whether the person has got the cancer or not, right? We would want to have really high precision over there. Okay? At the other times, when we want to, when we are analyzing something, and we when we want to know, like, what are the chances, or what are the like in? What scenarios does the history could repeat itself, right? We would want models with high recall value. So again, having models with high recall or high precision is very domain specific, in a sense, great. Okay, so coming back to this discussion over here, that is, we do have model with us. We create, we, we we have data with us. We created three models, and none of these models gave us really good accuracy or really good high metrics that we would ideally want, right? So now I am of the belief that these algorithms are quite sophisticated, and this algorithm might not have any issue. Okay, so what else could be done? What else could be done, right? So I'm of the opinion that in this scenario, we could either increase the size of the data set, right, so that the model gets more data to look at, and as a result, the model can learn more, okay, or increase or add more predictive features, just as our friend Carlos mentioned, or We could say we could come up with more logical target variable,

Unknown Speaker  2:29:06  
okay, or

Speaker 1  2:29:13  
change the algorithm, but again, less likely to to walk Right, because, like, if we keep on working with the same data set and just change the algorithm, the things are highly likely that it won't work, right? Because from these three active from these three models, we got to know that, like, they all work in a more more there's a similar way, right? So we could either increase the size of the data set, or we could add more predictive features, or we could come up with more logical target variable and or a combination of these two parts, okay, that might give higher chances to the model, so that the model can learn. And the model can understand the relationship between the features in the target variables. Okay, so let's go ahead. Let's do one thing. Let's use the last two steps again. Okay, let's use this last two steps and see what, what different we can do. Okay, so the next thing that we are going to learn is the is something known as the support vector machine classification algorithm, which really works quite well with medium sized data. Okay, so one of the among the other pros that the decision tree and the random forest has, which is, like it, like it works with the raw data. Okay. Another pros that the random forest algorithm has is it, it works seamlessly well with really big data sets. And when I say really big data sets, I referring to the training data sets in millions and billions, okay? On the other hand, we have these classical algorithm, the support vector machine algorithm, that usually works quite well with medium size to small size data sets, okay? And the it really shines when the data set has real it has minimum input, but really high dimensions. So if there are like, just like, a few 1000s of inputs, but there are like, like hundreds or the 1000s of features, this kind of algorithm, or this particular algorithm shines in those, those kind of cases. Okay. So again, the the problem statement that we might have where we don't have access to really huge data sets, or something like that, support vector machine is a go to algorithm to walk with. Okay? The way it works is really simple and really intuitive. So say we have a scatter plot of two features over here. And these two features when we go ahead and when we try to label them. These features, these are the two features that could really segregate or not segregate, I would say, but that could really help us visualize the way the two classes are separable. Okay, so over here we see that there are two classes the data belongs to two classes, the one orange and the other is blue, okay, and this particular algorithm works well with this kind of data set, really, really well where the data is linearly separable, okay, where the data is linearly separable. So with this kind of data, where that coming up with coming up with decision boundary is easy and intuitive. What? What does this algorithm do? Is it tries to come up with a hyper plane. Okay, it tries to come up with a hyper plane, which is also known as the decision boundary, okay, on either side of which, the on either side of which, the

Speaker 1  2:33:35  
data of either classes lays out. Okay. And how does it try to come up with this decision boundary, or this hyperplane, is by maximizing the distance between the nearest data point, okay, so this decision boundary that we see over here will be carried out, okay, will be stretched out by increasing the distance, or by maximizing the distance of the nearest data points. Okay, these are the nearest data points, so and that and those distances, okay, those distances are computed from this line, okay, that goes through those nearest data points that and those distances are known as the margin. Okay, so this particular algorithm, support vector machine algorithm, tries to come up with this decision boundary, which is also a hyper plane in higher dimensions, right? It tries to come up with this decision boundary by maximizing these margins, which goes through the nearest data points right? And these nearest data points are known as the Support Vector. They are known as the Support Vector. However, one thing that we need to really question is that. Is if the algorithm is so simple, okay, and if it comes with this linearly separable boundaries in such a way that, right, then why it is not scalable, okay, why it is not usable to like to an extensive part, okay, the answer lies in the answer lies in a way, how the how most of the data sets are organized in the real world, okay, how most of the data sets are organized in a real world. So over here, this particular example shows us that the data is linearly separable. But what if? But what if our data looks like this? Okay, so here we don't have any mechanism to here. We don't have any mechanism to create the decision boundary. Okay, we can't, we cannot create, or we cannot come up with that hyper plane that passes through this, this kind of data set. So over here we have data points again. It says, Get upload, okay. And the scatter plot, the inner circle belongs to one class. The outer circle belongs to another class. Right now, if we come up with a decision boundary like this, okay, we see that there is, like, highly misclassification, or if we come up with a decision, decision boundary like this, there is again, misclassification happening all all The way, right? So there is no way that such non linear data could be separable. But wait, support vector machine says, I will do something. And the support vector machine thinks things for a bit and says that, no, I will. What I will do over here is for this known linear data, okay? For this known linear data, I will try to apply some kind of transformation, okay, and I will see if, after applying those transformations, I can come up with that linear boundary, linear decision boundary, okay, so support vector machines are capable of applying transformations to the data, and after applying transformations to the data, most of the time, it could come up with a decision boundary. Okay? And see one of the one of the transformations that it could apply is to project this kind of non linear data in higher dimensions. So currently, the data is two dimensional. If I project this dimension, this two dimensional data in three dimension, okay, like this right now. See now the two data is linearly separable, so support vector machine is capable to apply such transformations. And then once the transformations have been applied, it can go ahead, and it can come up with the decision boundary, and it can create the hyperplane over here, and then it can allow us to predict in a separable in a clearly separable way. Okay, so

Speaker 1  2:38:34  
the trick that we just saw is also known as a kernel trick, and there are, like quite a few such contricks out there which the support vector machine could apply to make data separable by a decision boundary. Okay, so almost every time the decision boundary that the support vector machine will come up with usually involves applying some kind of transformation, and this is just one of the cases. Okay, it's not necessary that every time the support vector machine will do the same trick and it will come up with the tree. It's just one of the ways. Okay, so why support vector machines are highly celebrated when it has high dimensional data, which fewer number of all the mid size data set, is because it it can usually apply such kind of contricks, and it can come up with those boundaries. Okay, so this is how the support vector machine algorithm works. And, yeah, let's go ahead and let's try to apply it in the Python Okay, let me see if there are any questions. I need to erase this drawing.

Speaker 1  2:40:02  
Okay, let me go through the questions. If I have my if I might have any.

Speaker 1  2:40:12  
Could you define small, medium, large data sets? So when I say large data sets, I'm usually referring to data set saving, like millions and billions of rows. When I say small or medium, I am usually referring to like 1000s to 1000, hundreds row in the training data set. So those are considered as medium to small data sets in quant in quant trading. Could you define support vector machine? No. Support Vector Machine is really an independent concept, right which year which we are going to apply in this activity. Now, okay, so someone is saying, why not use a circle in between? So zoom in if you really see, this is the data that we have right now. Most of the algorithms cannot apply those kind of circular boundaries. And if they do, if they do, right, as we see over here, the boundary between those these two circles won't define much, okay, so, yeah, so, Nicola, you are correct. So there are algorithms which could come up with these non linear boundaries, in a way, but that would that would be applied to, I would say, Enough, in particular dimensions, only note and not really everywhere. Okay, so for example, again, I might be, I might be drifting away from the current discussion. But over here, as you see, I have another demonstration for moral fitting activity. So over here we see that. See we this particular algorithm, this particular whatever model is, right, this model is able to came up with this circular boundaries as such, over here, right? But usually, this kind of algorithms, right? They do appear good in the in textbook, but they are usually highly susceptible when it, when we put it into production, okay, but yeah, in a way, you are correct. We could put those things, but yeah, see, and it might come out as a good fit, okay, it might come out as good fit, but yeah, great coming back to our discussion. Okay, someone says, In quant trading, what is kernel data trick in support vector machine? So, again, in quant trading, again, the kernel trick is very, very much specific to support vector machine. Once you build the model, we'll see, okay, right? So, unless, So, unlike the previous model, models that we built where we were building, target to so again, in the previous activities, the target variables that we were using host to predict whether the next day is an update or not. Right over here, we are going to change the part a bit. We are going to change our target variable, and instead of predicting whether the next day is going to be an update or not, here, we are going to predict whether the next day's open price is going to be above today's open price or not. Okay, I repeat, instead of predicting whether the next day is going to be an update or not, in this activity, we will change the target variable. We will keep the all all the features as they are. We will change the target variable to predict whether the next day's open price is going to be above current days open price or not. Right? That is what we are going to do. So what we are changing over here, we are changing two things. We are coming up with another target variable. We will, we don't, we don't know whether it is logical or not, but we are just changing the target variable and we are changing the algorithm. We are doing these two things, right? Okay, great. Going back to the Python code over here, I'm importing libraries. The I am importing the I'm reading the same data set that we have been using now until now. So, yeah, this is a tester data with 1500 plus rows we I have been I'm going to use the same set of features, okay? And my same set of features uses what? Not like so I am using the first computing the log returns over here

Speaker 1  2:45:05  
and over here. Our tag old target variable was this particular. What was particularly this, right? That is like returns minus shift minus one. If greater than zero, then we would be having one, okay, this was, this used to be our old target variable. Over here, we are saying that if, if next days,

Speaker 1  2:45:38  
okay, if next day is open, price is greater than two. Row be my target variable. Again, after creating target variable, I need to check the distribution of the data, and I see the distribution of data is also balanced, even in even with this new target variable. So that is good part. Okay, I am not going to Okay. This is my data. This is how my features look like. I'm going to keep the same set of features list. I'm not going to repeat this, because you guys know already what they are. These are my features list. Now I need to go ahead and I need to drop the null values that have been incorporated. This is how I do it, by using Drop na method, and this is how my final data set looks like. Okay. Now this time, the target variable would be different, okay. Compared to the previous one, the features are going to be one in the same so if I go ahead, if I check over here, I'm I see

Speaker 1  2:46:43  
my target variables are different. Okay, my target variables are different than what they were earlier. Now they are different. Okay, great. Now, once my data set is generated, I can go ahead and I can split it into testing and training. Part now is this data set or this particular algorithm also works similar to regression. We need to scale the features. Okay, we need to scale features. Else, if I don't scale the features, those features would have uneven importance is and as a result, those linear boundaries won't be calculated. So I need to go ahead and I need to scale my features. So these are just, I'm just like computing these. I'm just describing my mean and standard deviation. So you guys already know how to scale your features. I am going to create the standard scalar object, apply fit transform on training data and apply only transform on the testing data. Okay? And once I do it, I will go ahead and I will check whether they are now uniformly scaled or not. And yes, they are right. So mean is zero, standard deviation is one for all the features that we have over here. Great. Now I will go ahead and I will now import the support vector classifier, because it's a classification algorithm from the SK learn dot SVM module. And by by the way, we can use support vector machine for regression as well as classification both. Okay, so Support Vector classification is SVC, and if we want to use this for regression, I can use SK learn.sv, from sklen, SVM input, SVR, okay, we could use either. I would be now going ahead and defining the model, so the kernel trick that I mentioned could be performed by by different kernels. So if you guys want to know what are different, what different kernels are supported, we can go ahead and access the help. And we see the default kernel is RBF, radial basis kernel. But there are, like many other available out there, linear means it will always try to come up with the linear boundary, then the polynomial boundary and sigmoid and whatnot. Default would be RBF, and that is what it for this kernel. The SVM is usually popular for, okay, so this is the kernel that we are going to use. And now, once we have defined the defend the model, I'm going to train the model. Okay, model got trained, I can go ahead and I can predict on training data, and let me print the accuracy. And this time, I see the old time high accuracy, which is 87% nice. Okay, let's cross our finger to see what prediction of what accuracy we do we get in the text test data. And let me put it on the let me check it on the testing data. And great. This is what we see on a testing data. We also see 80% so again, my question is this model over fitted? You just, you guys just need to, like, type in yes or no. Is this model over fitted?

Unknown Speaker  2:50:35  
Yep?

Speaker 1  2:50:43  
Uh, perfect. So everyone's Correct. Those who still don't get to know, like whether this is over fitted or not, do let me know. So someone still says, don't know. So again, like you guys, you you really need to go through these definitions, this is the reason why I type in everything, is because you have things in front of you so that you can take decisions. You can you can make inference, right? So

Speaker 1  2:51:25  
vira says that. Can we do it with the current day closing price? I will come to that part. Vira in a moment or no, in a moment or so.

Unknown Speaker  2:51:40  
Okay, great.

Speaker 1  2:51:47  
So now that we have, so yeah, there is no bias over here, and the model is also a little bit over fitted, as per the thresholds that we decided that we but again, as we said, eight to 10% is the usual. So I would put it that the model is not over fitted as such. Okay, we are applying, as you see, on the same earlier data, right? Yes, on the same earlier data, but a different target variable. Okay, so now Anusha, that gives me that, yeah, that gives me that takes me to the another question, which is, why do you guys think, why do you guys think that we get high accuracy over here? What could be the reason is it because of the changing of the algorithm or changing of the target variable. My question to you guys is like, what, according to you, what is driving this increase in the accuracy, right? Is it the change in the target variable or the change in the algorithm? What we we made two changes right from the previous activity. We made two changes. We changed the algorithm and we changed the target variable. According to you, what is making these increase in the accuracy go ahead and everyone think for a bit. Nikolai, Shiraz, Gaurav, Carlos Zubin, again, take, take a moment and so no, there is no look ahead. Bias for sure. Nikolai,

Speaker 1  2:53:37  
I will still wait for like another 1020, seconds for the people to answer like so most of you are saying that the increase in the accuracy is primarily driven by the change in the target

Unknown Speaker  2:53:58  
variable. Okay,

Speaker 1  2:54:06  
okay, so most of like almost every one of you are saying that we it is, it is because of the change in the target variable. If that is the case, if that is the case, can you take another 30 to 40 seconds and think of think of it. Why? What did we change such that, like, why these logical variable, why this target variable makes much makes more sense with the current data that we have. Okay? My question is, as most of you, not most of all, almost everyone of you, are saying that the increase in the accuracy is primary, primarily driven by the change in the target variable. Now, if that is the case, if that is the case, what Re. Really made the difference that just by changing the target variable, okay, just by changing the target variable, the accuracy got increased. Take 30 to 40 seconds, because this is really important to understand, like, how your model is working. If you don't know how your model is working again, you won't be able to make like really good.

Speaker 1  2:55:32  
So again, the answer lies in the data set. So let me put data set over here. Okay, so

Speaker 1  2:55:45  
uh, unless we don't understand how our model is working, we might not be able to use our model to an extent in trading. Okay, so I have one response over here. I'm waiting for a few more, which says that close to close is more typically predicted, and maybe that age has disappeared. It is not so to predict Open to open, no, no, not really. Didn't we scale it. We did scale it. We did scale it, but that is after printing this data set. We did scale it. Arvind, so again, the scaling happens over here. I'm showing the before scale scaled part, because we are humans, right? So we understand the raw data. Okay?

Speaker 1  2:56:43  
So someone says our primary data is open, open, high, low, close, direction is a derived variable. Okay, that's true, but that is true for both open to open, close to close. Both predicting next days open is more direct to the primary data and not, not really. Okay, so, so let me answer this part. See, let me explain it over here. Okay, please pay attention. This is important in a way. Okay, our target variable, again, someone is put something. Yeah, that would, that would, that might be the case. We I haven't calculated the the correlation between the dependent and the independent variable, but by looking at the accuracy, I'm assuming that it would be higher, okay, but see what is happening over here. Features that we calculated Okay, are based on close prices. Right target uses the open price now for such for such models to be used, okay, for such models, for such models to be used. What do you guys? Okay, so in Indian markets, or for, for that matter, any market, okay? We usually have, we usually have the markets open at, say, nine o'clock, okay? Markets closes. Markets close at say, 16 o'clock, okay, when the market opens, we usually have our open price available with us. Okay, so at nine o'clock in the morning, we will be having the open price available with us, which means we can go ahead and we can run the model right to predict whether the next day would be whether the open price on the next day would be above the current open price or not. So can we do this? My question to you now, guys, can we run this model right after the market gets opened?

Speaker 1  2:59:14  
My question is very is really simple over here, which is, can I execute this model? Can I run this model at nine o'clock, just after the market opens, to predict whether the next day's open price is going to be about today's open price or not. No, forget to buy it. But just, just answer me, like, Can Can we use it? Can we use it?

Speaker 1  2:59:50  
Exactly right? We cannot use it because we need close prices, because we need close prices to calculate our features. So in. This case, we cannot run the model as we don't have today's close price. Yes, that's true, right? Features uses today's close price, and as a result, what is happening is I need to run my model at the close price, and not the open price, and not the market opens, but I need to run it over here. When I run over here, Carlos, there won't be any look ahead buyers, right. And now what is happening is, compared to a previous data set, compared to a previous data set, we now have the whole new piece of information from 9am to 6am incorporated in our data set. Okay, my data set uses target value of nine to 9pm but I am predicting at 16 o'clock. So on the same day, I have really good amount of extra piece of information which I can use to predict next days, open Okay, in all our previous activity, even the target prices, was to use the close price, okay? And as we know empirically, that the close prices are much more random than the open prices, although open prices are still random, okay, close prices are entirely random. Okay, you guys would have studied the efficient market hypothesis. So to predict the open prices, or to predict the direction of the open prices, I have this extra piece of information of whatever has happened between during this period, and this piece of extra information is actually helping us learn the target direction, okay, is actually helping us the target direction. So, okay, so we need to understand what is causing this high accuracy whenever we build any model, right now, if I go to back to, if I go back to the model, and if I evaluate my model, evaluate my model right which has got, like, really good high accuracies. And if I print confusion matrix, see we got those numbers high on the diagonal side, right? This is what we wanted. This is what we wanted, right? We wanted this diagonal numbers to be quite on the higher side. And this is what we got over here, right? Great. Apart from this, apart from this, if I go ahead and if I check the classification report, that is precision recall, I see the precision recall are also have also increased, right? The precision have increased to 80% and 83% compared to 50, 50% in the in the previous activities. So this is all this is all that I had for you in the stores today. I really want to emphasize that whenever you build any machine learning model, please ensure that your data is something that contains predictive power. If your data is of really good quality, machine learning algorithms will usually be able to capture those nuances. Okay? And when you get to know that your models are performing quite well, try to try to introspect what is causing those high numbers, right? And that is really going to put you ahead compared to your peers, right? So, yes, this is all ahead for you in the store for today's class. In the next class, we are going to touch upon clustering and the neural networks, and we will also go ahead and back test a few of the models using those concepts. So but yes, these are I really hope this lecture gave you some additional fundamentals and build your foundation strong. I'm still here for the next two minutes to take any questions that I might have left, but the lecture is officially over,

Speaker 1  3:04:31  
after predicting the next day is open. How to use this information for trading. So again, you could use in a way that if today was the down day, that is, if today is the red candle, okay, which means the open price is, which means the close price is lower than the open price. And if your prediction, if your model, if your algorithm, predicts that the next days open is going to be above today's today. Is open price. Then you take, you can take the long position at the end of the market, and you can square off that position on the next is open. Okay, basically, kind of like, buy today, sell tomorrow, btsd kind of stuff. Okay. That is the, that is how you can capitalize this algorithm, yeah, and how to hedge if prediction is wrong? No, you cannot hedge over here because you are just taking position from today's close to the next day's open price. And can the prediction can go wrong? Yes, absolutely, it can go wrong, just like just with any of any other trading strategies. This is no exception. How do I get comfortable around validating models, decision trees, etc, practice on our own, our assignments. So first before validating your model. Get yourself a hang of building these models. Okay? The more you build the models, the more you will understand the nuances of the model. And then once you, once you're comfortable building the models, you yourself in the process, will start getting the idea whether, like how those models are doing. Okay? So nothing beats practice, okay, not even agent AI. Can you repeat why previous target variable with decision tree give low accuracy? Okay? The idea was very simple. Visual over here, see previous target you used to use close price, okay, so our features were based on the close price, or target was also the close price, and they both were random. Okay, so our algorithm did not really have anything to predict from right? What changed over here is we change from open to close to open, which means that my most of the features use open prices, okay? And for example, CEO for and other like other algorithm and other features, right? So what happened? What happened is, I'm using close prices as part of my features along with the open so I have extra piece of information of what has happened from two days open to two days close, which could contribute to predict the direction of the next day's open price, okay, which is random, but not as random as the close price. Can you suggest a good technique to predict tomorrow's volatility? So volatility prediction usually is bit easier than predicting the close price, because the properties of volatilities are really different than the properties of the close price, right? So, as you guys would have learned in your ASQ classes, that volatility usually clusters. Volatility usually has those mean reverting pattern, and that makes the volatility variable itself quite stable in nature, okay, so volatility usually has those predictable properties, and as such, making predicting volatility is far, far easier. Okay, you can use neural networks, especially for volatility prediction, and which uses like the memory from the past. Again, something that we will cover in the next lecture. We won't be touching upon the volatility, but yeah, neural networks are highly used in predicting volatility. If you had to choose just one models, one of the today's model for rest of your quant life. Which one would it be? No again, that would be. That would be more of a like discriminated and discriminatory behavior from my side, there is when it comes to machine learning or AI is that there is no it's not, it's not like one size fits all kind of stuff for different set of algorithms, for different sets of problem statements,

Speaker 1  3:09:28  
I will choose different features and different models. How to build models. That is what we have been doing for the past two lectures. So someone says, I come from a non coding, non quant background. So again, a very first thing that I would urge anyone who believes this part, right, unless you keep, unless you remove this idea from your mind that you you come from non coding, non quant background, right, you won't be able to grasp a. Yeah, you won't be able to learn anything new. Okay, you will always hold on to this part that I come from non, non coding background. I come from this part. I don't, I can't run this. I like again, these things, this is not my cup of tea. Unless you get away with those kind of thoughts, you will not be able to appreciate what's new coming your way. Okay, so I see this from best to batch students to students in every walk of life, that unless you get rid of such thought patterns, you will not be able to appreciate anything new that comes your way. Okay? So even if you practice whether it is with regardless of anything, whether it is whether it is with building machine learning models or building back testing models or building simulations models or what not, right, you have to approach things with open mind. You have to welcome new things in a way that okay. Until now, you did not learn. You did not have that background, but now you are learning those stuff. Now you are learning programming. Now you are learning coding. Now you are learning this mathematical aspects, right? You just need to welcome those new aspects, new thoughts, with open heart and open mind, and just just try getting hold of like low hanging fruits, and if you keep approaching news, this new stuff, with all the all the good vibes and all the all the good practices, right, you will be able to, like, make much more progress, right? But again, unless you get rid of this blocking star stuff, nothing is going to happen in quant trading. What is the advantage of predicting close prices? Mostly we don't predict close price. We usually predict either direction or we usually predict volatility. And each of these applications has different each of these problem statements have a different applications. So for volatility, if I'm options trader, volatility is the is. Volatility is what I usually care for. Usually care for most. Because if volatility increases, the options prices increase. And as a result, my positions, which are Vega exposed, will will incur losses and whatnot, right? If I can somehow know the direction of the market, I could build a portfolio of positions that could take the directional bet, right? Don't you get to other models by using transformations of OLS? I rarely do so, I rarely do so, one can always use AI to cover the coding part. Yeah, yeah, that's so that is a true most of the time, right? So even if you see, like today, to create this demonstrations, I use AI, right? I i ask Lord to go ahead and like, create demonstration for me, but create in such a way that I could explain this part right, even like this, another demonstration, even this part right, the clock part. I was just like, trying stuff out. And I was like, okay, but the important part is, like, where to put restrictions, where, like, again, where to keep the limit, right? I won't go, I like, I won't suggest you go and build everything with AI, because that is something that you won't be able to understand. So one thing, the other thing that I have usually noticed with this agentic AI and those stuff is, like, even for really simple task, like, like, the one tasks like somewhere like we could write 10 lines of codes and be done with it. These automated tools, these authentic aid tools, would would write hundreds of lines, okay, which we could easily write in like, which, which we could easily execute in 10 lines of codes. So, again, yeah, we need to need we need to know what things to go, where to apply those stuff, right? All right. Thank you so very much, guys for attending this class. I will see you in the third class next week. Until then, take care. Bye. Bye. You.

