Speaker 1  0:00  
Hello, everyone. This is Tom Stark speaking. I hope you are well, and I say hello, and all the best from Australia. So, just in order to make sure that everyone is here and can hear me, could you please send me a quick message in the questions box, so that I know. Oh, thank you, Max. That's really great. So, it seems like everyone can hear me well, which is fantastic. So, thanks, Nicola. Thanks, Vera. Yeah, I recognize some of the names from the last session, so that's great. So, for all of you who have seen me last time, thanks and welcome back. I hope we have a really good session together today. For those of you who haven't been there last time, if you have any questions during the session, feel free to ask them, and I try my best to answer them during the session. If there's any questions that is on material that I haven't yet presented. Please just wait until I have presented it, so we don't get the sort of flip over and people get a bit confused who are just following along. So that would be really good. Now today we're talking about reinforcement learning for trading. It's basically a subject of the deep learning in the deep learning speed space, reinforcement learning. I have actually been one of the early adopters of that, if not one of the first in trading. Overall, it's a very interesting thing. And so, what I will do today is, because I know that a lot of people on those webinars actually haven't been into machine learning too much yet. I will actually give a little overview of the ins and outs of machine learning, deep learning, just like a general for those of you who are data scientists. I apologize if some of this is familiar to you, but I really hope that I will still present you with some good value all along, so that you can get something out of this session. Now, just to give you a little bit of an overview, just something about myself. I've got a PhD in physics. I had an academic career. I published over 20 journal papers in pretty good journals. I've also got a few patents in engineering, specifically semiconductor physics. Was a lecturer at Oxford Uni and the principal engineer at Rolls Royce, where I sort of stepped away from microchips a little bit and did project management for various projects, including jet engine development. After my career in engineering, I went to finance and it really started with just me wanting to write some algos for for automating my super fund investments, and from that a whole career developed, and I finally ended up in numerous hedge funds and prop trading firms, and I've been there ever since. I'm currently the senior head researcher in a multi billion dollar hedge fund, so I'm developing the main trading strategies there, and you know, usually there are more large scale trading strategies, very, very interesting stuff, so I can say I really enjoy my career in finance. I'm actually finding it a bit more interesting than even engineering. That's why I stuck with it. I'm also running my own company. It used to, I used to do a lot of consultancy for various trading firms and institutions. Recently, I'm more focusing on some educational content because I'm mostly tied in with a specific firm, and so most of my work and my team's work are going into that. So that's that's pretty much it about myself and just want to give you a little overview of what we're doing today, because I think it might be quite interesting. So, I told you already, we're talking first a little bit about machine learning basics, you know, just talk a bit about the issues that can arise in machine learning, and this is actually really important because this will have a very strong knock on effect on the subsequent things that we're doing because ultimately even deep learning and so on is a part of machine learning so we have to in a sense look at it with similar I. Is, and this is particularly true for finance.

Speaker 1  5:02  
What I then want to do is present you with some mental models for the trading process, and I find that people find it generally very interesting, because this is probably something you haven't really heard of much before. It's basically some underlying mental models and ideas that are really crucial for trading, and the reason why I put them here is because it ties in with the idea of reinforcement learning, specifically because reinforcement learning is in a way mimicking a little bit the human way of learning through trial and error and reward and punishment, and so on, and so having those mental models will really give you a good understanding of the well, I'm not sure philosophy is the right word, but the underlying ideas of what we're doing here. So I hope you find it really interesting. We then move into optimal control theory, which is the underlying mathematical theory of reinforcement learning. Now, because we're talking about deep reinforcement learning here, the deep comes from the deep learning. Deep learning is a part of machine learning, obviously, but it uses large scale neural networks, and so deep learning is basically derived from that, and we combine it with the optimal control theory, and this gives us our reinforcement learning. I then show you a little bit what it looks like in practice, and some just some test results, and finally we're talking about lessons learned and some conclusions that we can draw from our experiments. I hope it's going to be a really interesting session for you. And again, if you have any questions, feel free to put them in the questions box. Just one thing I wanted to ask you, if you formulate your questions, please write them in good full sentences, good English. It makes it much, much easier for me to understand what you mean, because sometimes people, they just shorten their sentences a little bit, and so on, and I know this, this is usually what happens now with ChatGPT, but I'm still human, so I would really prefer if you could do this now. Just, just a quick word with ChatGPT and deep learning in general, you know? I get a lot of questions about this. How good is it for trading, and so on, and obviously it's been incredibly useful in the past year or two to actually work with these systems, and for certain things, like, you know, getting some help with the coding, and so on, doing some testing, is really amazing. However, I have to say that my personal experiments so far have not actually shown any huge promise in those systems actually coming up with independent profitable trading strategies, and when I say profitable, yes, you can probably build some that are mildly profitable, but what I haven't seen yet is actual trading strategies that are really outperforming traditional trading strategies, so we'll see what happens, and maybe I, you have some counter examples, I'll be really keen to hear that, but in any case, it's a very interesting time we're living in, and very fascinating, and so, yeah, we'll see. Sure has asked, how about Claude AI? Well, I actually use Claude quite a lot, and I find that specifically Claude is not particularly good in even producing some, you know, really good, great tests, back tests in general, and it certainly hasn't been able to come up with interesting strategies by itself so far. That's all I can say now. The interesting thing is in trading, and maybe I told this last week, but what happens is that you know when you, when you're a lawyer, you're a good corporate lawyer. What you do is you first learn about all the laws that exist, and then what you do is, once you understand all of them, you then look for the loopholes and for the stuff that isn't actually in the law. And then trading is a bit the same, you know, like you look, what is out there, and obviously a lot of people trying to make AI work for themselves for trading, but what you got to do is you got to get in and you actually look for the things that haven't been done yet that don't exist, and of course this is much harder because you got to really understand a.

Speaker 1  9:59  
A wide range of the things that are already there, and then basically learn to extract the ones that are not existing yet, so that's really quite interesting. Just had some visitor here, so yeah, I think I think they could be, could be fascinating, and I think given that, and the mental models we discussed today, it will give you some very interesting things to think about. Now, just for the presentation, I will switch my video off. I think you don't need to see me anymore, so I will then move on, okay. Next one, so just before we really dive into it, here's some interesting feedback by one of my students, and I just wanted to show you this, because if you, if you think you know what we're discussing today is, is quite theoretical, and so on. It's really not. I mean, I have been using this in practice for quite a bit, and there's also other people, and there's one feedback, for example, that I picked out. I get quite a lot via LinkedIn, people sending me messages, and this is here an interesting one. And lady said, I just wanted to say heartfelt thank you for incredible ideas to share content. I've been applying some of your concepts in my crypto trading. The results have been nothing short of amazing. One approach that really stood out for me is using gamification, which is something we'll discuss during the talk here. Techniques during training, it's helping my agents learn and adapt like a human trader. It's honestly beautiful to see your insights have truly transformed the way I think about trading intelligent systems. So, obviously, you can see that there are people really looking into this from a practical perspective, and there's definitely, you know, some good aspects of it, and these things can really work if you apply your mind to it, and you know the initial, you know, idea when, when I started doing this, was really about thinking, wouldn't it be great to make money while you sleep, you know? You basically switch on a machine, you don't even have to worry about building a strategy, so reinforcement learning effectively gives you that promise that you don't even have to develop a good, credible strategy, you can literally just have the machine work out a strategy on its own, and then run it and make you money, and so this is really quite a fascinating idea and promise. Now, from my own perspective and my own practice, I would have loved a machine like this, but unfortunately, you can see I'm still working, I'm still lecturing, so the.. it's not, it's not really worked out that way. And there's obviously good reasons for it, and one is that times at the moment move really fast, and you have to really stay on top of a lot of things, and what was amazing yesterday is really not amazing anymore today, and so, well, one of the good and bad aspects of quantitative trading is that you have to keep really moving and evolving with time, but that's also what makes the job interesting, and so it's obviously one of the greatest pluses and maybe one of the minuses as well. Okay, so over the last few years I've had, I've actually seen in my own practice a huge move from manual trading to algorithms. I remember when I started my first trading firms, about 80% of people were manual traders and 20% it and only five years or six years later that ratio had completely shifted with about 80% it and only 20% manual traders anymore and I would say these days it's even shifted far more so we have I would say 90% it development, and only about 10% traders. Now, the question is, if you're quantitative researcher, are you it, or are you a trader? I think you're somewhere in between, but I guess from a perspective of a trader like this guy here, you would still be classified as a developer to some extent. Okay, so let's take a step back and think about what is machine learning, and for those of you, actually, I just quickly want to send a.

Speaker 1  14:59  
Quick question around for everyone, could you please tell me what your background is, and I know some of you already told me last week, but if you could send it to me again this week, it would be really great, because I just get a little feel of who is who is in here and what people do. Anusha says, pharma, interesting. Okay, so that's very new for you. Finance and data science. So, Carlos, how Max software engineer, Manny Ganden, child accountant. Yeah, I remember some of the names, of course. Ankasch, farmer forecasting associate, interesting, crucial trader, Shreyas. Of course, I met you. Asked a lot of questions last time. Non-coding, non-quant manual trader, so hopefully you get, you learn something here. Shreyas Vera, I'll go trader. Great, and AJ Quant Dev, what else have we got here? Oops, sorry. It's going really slow. Martha, data scientist, Ham Ender, a quant developer, rug of investment banking. I remember trading desk product manager, interesting fixed income at large bank. Agrim currently pursuing B Tech in computer science. Great software engineer, physicist, developer Nikolai, fellow physicist. I remember you from last time, student undergrad AI, and Narayan Nubin, new Python programmers, professional research analyst, fantastic. So, more people on the quantitative side, so I'm not going to draw out the machine learning stuff too much, because it looks to me like most people have already done a lot of it, so really I mean just just to go into this again, machine learning is really about getting some input, and input usually consists of features, so we've got, you know, whatever input very valid variables there are pertaining to a certain subject, for example, we've got a car, and we maybe have input features like horsepower and fuel consumption and air resistance and all these sort of things, maybe the weight, and then we can put them in here, and then we can run a classification, and basically we could say, well, is it a car or is it not a car? Well, this could be one thing, we could also say, well, what type of car is it? Maybe we can predict that from the features, and so on, or maybe the car is actually an image, and then we can run this to a classification engine, and we'll say, well, is you know, is it the car on the image, or is it something else, or is it a cat or a dog? So these are some of the machine learning things we can do, if we move to deep learning, then we've got this extra bit where basically we can feed it more indiscriminate features, we can deep learning will basically do some feature extraction and then do the same thing effectively as not regular machine learning, so in many ways deep learning and machine learning are quite similar, only that deep learning models are a bit more generalistic, more versatile, where machine learning is a bit more specific to the problem. There's actually a large number of machine learning models that you can use, however, in deep learning, really everything is just one model, which is a neural network, which is something we have a look at in a little bit. Okay, so there are two types of learning: supervised and unsupervised learning, so supervised unsupervised learning is something that we discussed last week. You remember we did principal component analysis, and so what principal component analysis does, and what we did last week is basically apply it to data sets, and what we're really looking for is some structure inside the data set, so some, well, some underlying structure that can give us some more interesting ideas about the data set, so just imagine we have a three dimensional data set with points in d and we want to know what is the underlying structure in that data set? Maybe how are they clustered together, and so on. So we've got clustering here, for example, PCA, principal component analysis, and other methods, unsupervised learning. So basically we don't know anything about data.

Speaker 1  19:59  
Data set beforehand in supervised learning we have two types, classification and regression, and what we're basically doing is we have a data set, we already know the structure of the data set that we know, for example, we want to know house prices, so what we do is we collect information about many, many houses across a certain area or certain country, and so on. We look at the historical house prices, we see how they have moved, and so on. And from that, for example, we can then take features of these houses, such as the size of the house, the age, the area where it's in, the condition, and so on, and then we can make a prediction of whether the house is, you know, what the price of the house is. So, if we predict specifically the price of a house, then we would call it a regression, so it's basically giving us an output on a sliding scale. If we say, well, for example, we just want to know if the house is cheap, medium, or expensive, you know, this would be classes, so this would be specific prices, it would just be classes, we would say, I don't know, in Australia, a cheap house goes maybe up to, I don't know, $400,000 a medium house to 800,000 an expensive house to, you know, infinity. Then basically we would categorize this in three categories, for example, and then that's classification, so they're actually separate categories, so here is again how supervised learning actually works in practice, and for those of you who haven't done it yet, so shares, for example, it's maybe you have done it now, but it's actually not very complicated, you have like a number of features for each of the samples that you want, so for example, the samples are the different houses, the features are the different properties, like the age, the location, the condition of the house, the size of the house, and so on, and then also you input a price, or the current prices, whatever. So this is basically a known data set, and what you take, you do is with this, you take this known data set, you feed it into a machine learning algorithm that then generates a model, which is your prediction system, and then you feed it inputs of unknown houses, for example, you know you've had houses, you, you know the prices, but then new houses come on the market, and so what you can do is you can actually feed it the price of a new house that has that hasn't been part of the model yet, then the model does its thing, and then predicts the new house price of this house, so this is a typical supervised machine learning algorithm. Now, in opposition to that, and that's again what we talked about, PCA. Oh, actually, sorry, this is still supervised here. So we talk about classification and regression. I already explained that to you. So regression is basically we have a prediction on a sliding scale, so we basically draw a line, and then whatever the x value is, it predicts a certain y value that is associated with the X. In the other case, what we do is we're basically separating the two datas, or separating the data sets into, in this case here, disease and healthy. And then once we apply the machine learning model, we can then say, well, is the person more likely diseased, or is a person more likely to be healthy based on the input features that I've given it, and so this is classification. In this case, there's really two classes: disease and healthy, and obviously there can be many more classes, but this is just a general way of doing things. An unsupervised learning, in this case, here I show you K means clustering. This is actually really something that people use a lot in quantitative finance, because there's interesting things to be figured out. So, for example, when we do PCA, we can do a kind of clustering, which I demonstrated last week. There's other methods that people use, for example, K means clustering. So, for example, we have this data set here, and this is, by the way, and I say this is a two-dimensional data set, so it's only got an x and y axis.

Speaker 1  24:52  
Most data sets are way more complicated, they have probably 10 dimensions or 20 dimensions, so quantitative finance or. Often there's many, many input features, for example, you know, fundamental data, volatility data, and some, maybe some technical moving averages, some statistical data, and so on. So you end up with quite large data sets, and in those large data sets, it's really impossible manually to extract certain clusters, because as humans we're just not used to think in more than three dimensions. It's very difficult. So, what you can do is you can actually send this into clustering algorithm, and then the clustering algorithm is doing that for you, and you can then see here, you know, the different clusters, and from that you can actually assign labels to them, and then you can also, let's say, do some supervised machine learning. Now, there's an interesting case here. This is, there was once a pop musician, all the first time this, this, this clustering algorithm was really used successfully in practice was this pop musician. It got kind of famous, and so what the record label did is they analyzed his music, and they didn't particularly like it, but when they put it to the clustering algorithm, you had like a cluster with highly successful songs, and then you had another cluster with mildly successful and another cluster with, say, unsuccessful songs, and the song came up in the really highly successful cluster, and they were really surprised, and they thought, all right, well, we will just give it a try and put a song out just to see what happens, because that's what our machine learning algorithm tells us, and so they did that, and they actually found that that it was actually a really, really highly successful song, much to the surprise of pretty much anyone who was involved in that, so these things are quite practical and quite fascinating. So now most of you, if you are in a sort of quantitative field, you probably heard this before. Over fitting is one of the biggest issues we have to deal with in machine learning, and the reason for this is really that if we do machine learning, we usually have quite a lot of parameters, so any machine learning model is really defined by its parameter set, and a very simple machine learning, for example, would be a linear regression, which has only two parameters, so we can see this here in the red line, so we've got some blue data points here, and then the red line is a effectively a linear regression through these blue data points, and the linear regression basically is, you know, not fitting this very well, because it's just a straight line, and you know, probably from school that the slope of this line is y equals alpha times x plus beta, or sorry, usually it's expressed as beta times x plus alpha, and in this case it's not a very good fit. Now, if we increase the number of parameters a little bit to two, so in our case there would be, say, y equals alpha times x squared plus beta times x plus gamma, or something like that.

Speaker 1  28:35  
We actually find that this fits the data really well, but then we go well, if this fits the data really well, maybe we can go much higher, and we go to a model that has 300 parameters, and so what's what you see there is becoming really interesting, because we find that it actually does fit the data all right in some cases, but you can already see here this green line, the three hundreds polynomial, actually more or less fits a lot of the noise of the data, so it doesn't actually fit the data anymore very well, but it fits more the noisy part, and that's again, that's not really what we want, and this particularly fails on the edges or out of sample, and you can see here, actually, while the this polynomial actually goes through some of the data points, it just swings really wildly, and when you actually look at this polynomial, it goes way off the screen, up to, you know, we go from zero to 10 here, and it goes to like 5000 up and down or minus 5000 so these values don't make any more sense, and we sometimes call this also when we just try to find the right model a bias variance trade off, so this is very specific to machine learning, but um. And this is something that maybe you can explore for yourself. Rag of us, what's the appropriate number to have fitting done? Very good question. So this is the interesting thing, Raghav, there is no appropriate number. It really depends on your data set, so some simple data sets like this really work best with three parameters, and I know this because I've actually created the harder set myself. So this is just a basically second degree polynomial, but there are data sets that are way, way more complex than this. For example, if you have a whole stock market stock index, they say the S and p5 100. You've got many, many different underlying components of this, and so it's actually really difficult to know what the real number is. Now, one of the things you can do is, and maybe you remember that from last week, you could take the S and p5 100, you decompose it in its principal components, and then you look, how many say principal components explain 90% of the data set, and then you could say, okay, maybe that's sort of close to the number that we, that we have. So there was another question by someone, which I wanted to answer, but it just disappeared from my maybe it's in the answered one, so okay, there is no single appropriate, okay, okay, What's the difference between classification, regression, and clustering? So that's already been answered. All right, fantastic. Thank you very much. So we have obviously there's a few machine learning models that are good in not over fitting too much, and this is particularly true for finance, so, so I would say that you have to be very careful, and even for me, when I say this, don't use this as gospel, this can be very different in different circumstances, but what we found is that you know, linear regression support vector machines and naive base are for example machine learning models that don't over fit too badly, so they're usually good with over fitting, but they may have other problems, and decision trees, high, obviously high parameter polynomials, neural networks, so deep learning, these are things that can over fit very easily. Now, this doesn't mean they are necessarily bad, it just means they're not always, or you gotta be more careful when you apply them, and hence a lot of the machine learning in finance is really still linear regression principle component analysis, and very simple types of machine learning. So, when you actually look at professional finance, these are still the most dominant machine learning models, even though they have been around for a very, very long time.

Speaker 1  33:18  
So now we come to a little bit more finance related issues that we need to deal with, and again, this is really important when, especially when we deal with something like reinforcement learning, because in reinforcement learning, hence deep learning, a lot of these issues will actually be amplified, so we have to be extra careful when we deal with them, and one of the issues that we deal with, and a lot of academic papers have been written about this, is the fact that markets have fat tails, and I think you probably have heard of this before, so for example, there is the famous Black-Scholes equation, which is an equation that prices options, and the way the Black-Scholes equation prices options is that it assumes that market returns follow a Gaussian distribution, and if they do follow a Gaussian distribution, then the price of an option should be a certain value, and so, for example, we can see this here in the red, this is a Gaussian, or also a normal distribution. Now, the issue, though, is that markets are not like that, usually they have what we call fat tails, and in markets specifically fat left tails, which means that the probability of a crash, like here, or some people call it a black swan event, or something, is actually much, much higher. Or then what a normal distribution would predict now, if you take, for example, down here, the normal distribution would, for example, predict that the probability of some, some really big negative returns is effectively zero, but actually, when you look, the probability of this happening is like 1000 or 10,000 times higher than what the normal distribution would tell you. Now, why do we even use normal distributions? It's basically because they're mathematically very stable and easy to apply. So, for example, in the Black-Scholes equation, it's pretty straightforward, and you can actually get an analytical solution to a problem, but unfortunately it doesn't always reflect real world scenarios. The other thing is when you draw random numbers, so if you just do a simulation, for example, some of you have heard this, like a random walk, what you do is you draw samples from a normal distribution, so you just draw a sample here. If you do this, you can always get pretty much the same mean and the same variance. When you draw a lot of samples, you basically end up with the same distribution, but in markets it's not quite like this. They're often called Cauchy or Levy stable distributions, and when you draw samples from them, they're actually quite unstable. So, the mean and the variance never converge to a certain value. They will always jump around like crazy, and so these distributions are actually much, much more difficult to deal with, and this is really important, because in general neural networks are not necessarily built to deal with those types of scenarios very effectively. They normally assume more stable distributions, so for example, if you have images of cats and dogs, and you want to distinguish between them, the cats and the dogs, as you put them in, they will look different on different images, but they will still be cats and dogs, while actually in finance, often you end up with this moving target, where maybe an equivalent would be to say, well, this image is not quite a cat, it's kind of like a cat, but it's not quite a cat, or it's kind of like a dog, but it's not, maybe it's a fox or a wolf or something like this. So, in a sense, finance is actually far more complex, and therefore it's really important to be cautious when you set up your models, so you know, talking about mental models, and one of them I want to, I want to give you is perception bias, and so I want to ask everyone, and I hope everyone gives me an answer. What do you think is a more predictable chart, the one on the left or the one on the right?

Speaker 1  38:05  
So, I'll just wait like a minute, and there's no right or wrong answers, and I can tell you straight away I probably would have guessed wrong, but I want to give you, I want to give you this because I think you find it interesting, do so we have Kusha and Shreya saying left, Amit says the right one is more predictable, Arvin says on the right, right again, Mani Kandan, Ardrey says left, all right, any more, any more guesses? Honestly, if you guess wrong, it's not.. it's fine. So, if there's.. if there's any more, please, any more guesses? I can.. I think I will show you in a moment why one is correct and why the other one isn't. Okay. no one's guessing. All right, so let's, let's get going. Get the answer here. So the left one is a highly predictable one, and the right one is unpredictable. And now the ones who have guessed right don't feel bad about this. This is absolutely fine. I know one is predictable and the other one isn't, because I built the charts myself, but what I just tried to show you is that, in fact, our human eye is not very well equipped to even make this distinction and figure out what what is predictable and what isn't, it's actually incredibly difficult. And why is that? So, I mean, when you look at these two charts, right, you can see that this one has a really distinct trending behavior. Behavior here, and so you could say, you know, if you're a trend follower, you go, "Wow, this is, you know, really interesting. And there's some chart patterns here. I'm not good with chart patterns, by the way, but you know, you've got these head and shoulders, or whatever you want to call them, and then you maybe get some, some support and resistance, or here you know, you've got these support and resistance lines, and so on, but I know it's not predictable, because I just generated this with completely random numbers, and there is just no, you know, whatever happens on the right end of the chart, which is the most important here, the next tick, we will have absolutely no idea, could go up, could go down, or could go anywhere, but this is very different in this case. What we have is a very high level of auto correlation, and what this means is that today's returns are highly correlated to yesterday's returns, so in other words, if yesterday's return was up, then today's return is most likely to be down, and that creates this mean reverting pattern, and I guess some of you who predicted the left chart, or who thought the left chart is more predictable, probably see this mean reverting pattern now. Whatever you've seen here is in here is actually interestingly not what you think it is. So you may have seen a mean reversion in here, but the reality is, it's actually almost impossible to spot this with the human eye. You really, you really need to do a proper quantitative analysis on this, and this is actually important, because we can only have any predictabilities if we use chart patterns or charts in general, or statistical properties. If there is some sort of auto correlation in the chart, if the chart is completely random, it's actually completely impossible to make any predictions. So, whatever we do going forward from now on, we need to somehow understand that if we use charts themselves for prediction, we need to have some sort of predictable element in those charts, otherwise we're just basically gambling and working on luck, so actually auto correlation is quite interesting, and this is what it looks like.

Speaker 1  42:46  
So we have these what you call auto correlation functions, and so we have here we've got what's called the an auto correlation function and the partial auto correlation function, and you can see this is basically telling you the correlation at different legs, so what that means is, oh, this is today's correlation with yesterday's correlation, today with a correlation two days ago, three days ago, and so on, so, and basically, oh, look, actually, I just saw there was a few more answers coming in, so for all of you, I have to admit this, all of the answers of you that that I have dismissed, I apologize for some reason they didn't come onto my screen at the right time. Alright, so apologies for that, but thanks for giving the answers, I really, really appreciate it, so yeah, so basically auto correlation is really really crucial. This is linear auto correlation here, so we're basically looking at the legs of the different, or the correlation of different legs, and anything that is above this blue zone is basically statistically significant, so you can see there's a lot of legs here underneath the blue zone, and they are not really significant, but a few legs that are above at least those three here at the beginning, they are significant. You can actually see the first one is a one, which is basically the auto correlation with itself, so that's always one, and this is basically like zero, so that's not really interesting, so anything beyond the one is actually interesting, and that gives us some interesting facts. Now, there's obviously auto correlation, but there's also cross-asset correlation, and here we have a typical correlation matrix. So, just on the x and y axis, we have a number of assets. They're not specified, it's just numbers one to 33 and you can see that some of them have like a. Or higher correlations like these ones here, you know, you see them a bit brighter, and maybe the red ones here, but a lot of them actually don't have much correlation at all. So this is a typical diagram you would look at, and cross asset correlation, of course, is also very interesting. For example, if you do a mean variance portfolio optimization, you look at the variance covariance matrix, which is effectively similar to the correlation structure, just, just, just a square root of square root of it, so the thing is, and I already told you this, a lot of people that are in trading, they use technical indicators, and they, um, they look at them, and I often see this with, especially with sort of retail and beginners traders, they have their favorite indicators, and they really love that specific, or this specific indicator, but what's important to know is that all of these indicators are really just variations of auto correlation, so whatever indicator you use, it's always going to be some type of auto correlation that you're exploiting, and so it's important to understand that, and really be aware of it, and so often times what you will see is then if you go to more professional traders, they sometimes do use indicators, but in many, many cases they use very simple ones, like exponential moving averages, some simple measurement of volatility, and so on, and they're actually not necessarily using a lot of these more complex indicators. Now, I'm sure some of you have seen other people, they say, "Oh, I know a professional quant that uses more complex indicators. Of course, there's these people as well, and I'm not here to dismiss that.

Speaker 1  47:10  
I'm just saying, you, you will find a lot of professionals will actually just really stick with quite simple ones, because in most cases they're actually quite sufficient, so one of the things that is really important, if you do this, never try to be predict prices, predicting prices is actually quite a flawed approach, and you got to be really careful with this, because if you do this, you could really, you could really get in trouble, and this diagram is in fact from someone's blog, so someone written a blog, and the blog got 10s of 1000s of likes, and people were just super amazed of what the guy was doing, and so on, and they were like, well, and he wrote this huge machine learning system that basically did all these amazing machine learning tricks, and, and filtering, and normalizing, and what have you, like amazing, and I looked at it, and something is not quite right here, and he's like, look, how perfectly I predict stock prices, and when I looked at the chart, it just seemed obvious that he actually predicted yesterday's stock price today, so you know, whatever was the price yesterday, his prediction was actually today's prediction, so if the price was at 100 yesterday, he predicted 100 today, and so on, and so I looked at this, and this was pretty much what this curve suggests, and when I then, and luckily he was, he was there, he actually published his Jupiter notebook, so I ran through the Jupiter notebook, and I thought, well, how well does he actually predict returns? And I looked at this chart, and I looked like, oh, how well are the returns predicted? And lo and behold, there was absolutely no predictive power in the returns, because you can see sometimes he actually predicts today's price higher and sometimes lower than the previous days, you can see that here sometimes the red line is above the purple and sometimes it's below the purple, so what he really did was he said, well, today the price is at 100 and so effectively when you make a prediction, you will automatically find that the price tomorrow is really close to 100 as well, so let's say it is today's price here, so maybe that tomorrow's price could be here or here or here, so it's actually really easy to say, well, you make a price prediction and it's really close to today's price, you know, you're very. So you're very accurate in your prediction, but for trading it's fatal if you get the direction wrong, you know. If you predict tomorrow the price will go up and it'll actually go down, then you're losing money. You can only actually make money if you make a prediction, or the price will go up and then actually goes up. So the direction is important, and so what we really want to predict is the return, so we want to predict R, which is basically the price today minus price yesterday. Oops, sorry, this should possibly a P, okay, and this is divided by the price yesterday, so that's that's basically the percentage return of your prices, so if you can predict that, that's good, and this is what machine learning should do, but not the actual prices themselves, so always think about this, predict the price differences and the percentage returns much, much better. Okay, now I want to talk about another mental model with you, and this is also very interesting, because this is really a deep underlying truth about financial markets. A lot of economists, and I could see there, so far, what I could see, there wasn't really many economists amongst you. So I'm hopefully not stepping into very dangerous territory here, but a long time ago, famous economist John Maynard Keynes came up with the Keynes and Beauty Contest, and they basically said, well, we have a beauty contest, and he said, well, what happens if we tell people to predict the winner, and so if, if you know, let's say we have these five people here, and they make, you know, people make predictions of who's gonna win, you know.

Speaker 1  52:02  
You maybe have one, and then I don't know, three, and then I don't know, four, and then two, and five, so this is a pretty, this is pretty stable distribution, so it kind of looks like this, right, and so you can go from town to town, and this just distribution will basically be the same, more or less, in most places where you ask people, just predict who, or just basically tell me who's the winner. So that's a very common thing. Now, if you do the same, but you ask people instead of who's winning, you should predict who everyone else thinks is the winner, then the whole scenario looks very different. So, if we take again our, you know, our distribution in one place, it might look like this, and others it might look like this, or I don't know, like this, and you know, there could be maybe like this, there could be all sorts, and so basically, by instead of asking who do you think is the winner, or who do you think is the best, you actually ask who do you think everyone else thinks is the winner, then you suddenly get this really unstable behavior, and so if you look at markets, at least in a relatively short term, that's what people do, they're actually predicting who everyone else thinks is the winner, rather than trying to predict the, you know, who's going to come out ahead by themselves, so Who could tell me, like a famous person that actually didn't do that, you know, famous investor, I'm sure most of you know who actually, you know, he is actually a big proponent of scenario one rather than scenario two. Any guesses? Arvind already got it, Warren Buffett exactly, so Warren Buffett is like one of these people that actually say, well, you shouldn't really try to predict what everyone else thinks, but actually much, much better to stick with your own thesis and predict what or what you think. I'm actually just listening to the biography of Warren Buffett, and even if you're more from the quantitative side, I think it's a very fascinating audio book, so if you ever get your hands on it, audio biography of Warren Buffett. That really, really fascinating. He was a very interesting guy. So, so basically, when you, when you look at this second scenario, predicting who everyone else thinks is the winner, what you end up with is what I explained earlier. You end up with these really fat tails, so you know we've got as a baseline we've got the normal distribution, and then if we actually have this scenario where basically the market sort of is self-referential, so people just look around and they look what everyone else is thinking, then you end up with these markets that are much more distributed like this, so they have these really fat tails here compared to a normal distribution, and that's what creates effectively all the chaos in the markets, so they are not in a sense well behaved now. If anyone's interested in really going deep into this, there is an interesting book by a Benjay Mandelbrot, and maybe some of you heard of it. He actually also developed the famous Mandelbrot sets. It's these fractal structures, some of you may have seen them, they're like little little structures like this, and then you draw them out, and they become, yeah, little fractal structures. Thanks, Subin. They basically end up in these huge structures, you know, and you always see the same structure. So, so this guy, Ben Yat Mandel brought, he actually wrote a book called The Misbehavior of the Market, and it's available, it's a worthwhile read, it's quite old, it's, I think, from the 70s or even from the 60s, but it's still highly relevant today, so if you want to read a good book on the underlying ideas and principles governing the market in terms of fractals, I can highly recommend that one. So, here's another one for you.

Speaker 1  57:10  
So, this again is very relevant to this idea of reinforcement learning, because reinforcement learning did one thing that classic machine learning systems actually couldn't really do, and this was the idea of delayed gratification, because you know we have this issue in trading quite a lot, you know, you have a stock price, you know it goes up and down, and let's say you're here, and let's just say you got in here, you know, you go, okay, I can predict there's going to be a trend, and then you got a trend, and maybe it's like two days here, so you had two days already gone, gone, and you go, okay? Should I stay in the trade or should I exit? You know, obviously, if you stay in the trade, it could go here, could go there, but if you stay in the trade, you could actually realize a much higher return. If you exit the trade, then you might just end up with a lower return. So, the question is, what's the right, what's the right thing to do, and in a way, reinforcement learning is actually a technique that can really give you an informed decision process that can do this, and this is something that sets reinforcement learning apart from classical machine learning, that it can actually really deal with this idea of delayed gratification. So, basically saying, okay, I'm going to forego a reward right now for a higher reward later, and so here some of you may have heard of this, this famous marshmallow experiment. So you put a kid in front of two marshmallows, and the kid basically tell the kid, "Oh, just just wait 15 minutes, and if you don't eat the marshmallows, I come back into the room, and you can get 15 marshmallows at the end of the session, and so you know, some of the kids, they go stare at the marshmallows for five minutes, and then they couldn't help themselves and just eat them, but there were some other kids that actually were really disciplined, and they stayed with the sight of the marshmallows and really just stuck with it, and then eventually ended up with more marshmallows, which is really quite fascinating. And just as a side note, what was interesting was that they actually tracked the kids for the next 20 years or so in. Alive after they did the marshmallow test, and what they found was that the kids that could actually delay their gratification to later were much, much more successful in life than the kids that were eating the marshmallows straight away. So there's also a real interesting aspect of this in real life, not just for trading. Now, the big question is, what's the optimal strategy here? Is it always good to wait, and the answer is not necessarily, because if the higher reward you is received much, much, much, much in the future, you know, like in, you know, if you say eat two marshmallows now or get three marshmallows in 20 years, you go, well, I don't really care about the two, the extra marshmallow in 20 years, I just may eat the marshmallows now, or the other thing is, let's just say, you know, you, you get 10 marshmallows now, or you say, well, if you wait half an hour staring at the marshmallows, you get 11. You might go, well, actually, this is, this is not really, you know, great. Subin said I may be diabetic by then. Yes, or maybe if you just wait, you're not diabetic, and then you get so over staring at the marshmallows that you really don't want to eat them, which is actually much better for your health anyway. So, there could be a few interesting aspects, but, but what's so fascinating is here, you know, the real question, let's say, say I mean, to quite frankly, I don't like marshmallows. It's just that it was the famous experiment, but you know, you know, maybe we can use something else. But the question is really, what's the optimal strategy?

Speaker 1  1:02:00  
Should you wait or should you not wait, and when you look at classical machine learning algorithms, they are usually what you call greedy, so what they do is, you know, you've got, say, a certain scenario here, let's say a price, and then you're here at this decision point, and so normally what a machine learning model does is it really just goes and goes for the next period and basically just predicts or tells you what happens during the next period, and that's period, no pun intended. So that's that's the end of it, right, but wouldn't it be interesting to have a AI or machine learning model that can actually sort of give you a longer term view of something, and says, well, I believe in the long run it'll actually keep going up, and so you shouldn't be greedy and just realize your profits here, but you should actually stay in the trade, and so this is really an interesting one, because in the sort of mathematical sense to sort this out is not necessarily trivial. Zubin said there's also the monkey grape experiment, which is about satisfaction from reward and compensation. Okay, okay. I'm actually not familiar with this, Subin, so that would be interesting to hear about the monkey grape experiment. I will look that up later on. I know there's an experiment with monkeys on different islands, and then the monkeys on one island, do something, and then the other island monkeys on the other islands, they figure out what those sit, and people say there is some sort of secret connection between them or something. So that's quite interesting as well. I don't know if that experiment still holds or if it's been debunked, but obviously there's a lot of really interesting things now for us in trading. This is really a key, you know. Shall we persist with the trade? Shall we exit? You know, if we exit, we may have a guaranteed realized return, but we may also end up with really high turnovers, which is really not necessarily what we want, so there's definitely a huge trade off, and yeah, we have to deal with somehow now. Here it is, the typical equivalent in a pair straight, so we've got a pair straight here, statistical arbitrage, and you can see that, that you know, normally when our pairs price goes through the red line, then maybe we're entering a trade, but what can often quite happen, and this is very typical for pair straights, it will actually just keep going, because the market doesn't care whether you draw a line. In here or not, so your past trade actually keeps going, and you're actually starting to get really hurt by that trade. And now, if you're up here, the big question is, would you actually stay with that trade, or would you close it and just put a stop loss in, or would you trust your model to revert back? Now, in this case, here you already see what's going to happen, so you go, well, this is obvious, but unfortunately, in most cases, the right-hand side of the screen is up, it's just here. Sorry, this is meant to be a straight line. Let's let me try again, maybe I can do better this time, all right. This is just better. Yeah, okay. So, we've got the right hand side of the screen here. So, the big question is here: Should I close my position and just cut the losses, or should I wait? Of course, in this case, we have been better to wait, but, um, you know, it's not necessarily obvious, and if you're here, your stomach will basically churn quite a bit, so Zubin gave us a YouTube video. Unfortunately, I can't open that right now, so I can't really see what's in there, but just.. I guess it's a monthly curve experiment. I definitely look forward to checking this out later. So, this. this is basically a lot of, or just discovers our mental models, so you already see there's quite a few interesting aspects here.

Speaker 1  1:06:30  
How you can think about this, you know, we've had the beauty contest, we've had the marshmallow test, we've had the auto correlation, you know, just just the idea that when we look at charts, we don't necessarily be able to predict how, you know, we can't really predict what the actual underlying behavior of the chart is. So now what we can do is we can come to the mathematical underpinning of the idea of and basically bring all of this together, and so the original idea of of how you could deal, for example, with this delayed gratification comes from something called optimal control theory, and this is the equation here, it's also sometimes called the Bellman equation, and just to understand this equation, what we're basically having is an environment, and the environment in trading could be, for example, a set of technical indicators trading or the time of the day, some alternative data, some sentiment, and so on, and effectively, what happens is this environment, or the way this environment is constructed is basically a state, so what is the environment at this current time? You know, what are the values of our indicators? How? What is the sentiment? What is the volatility, and so on. And so this state goes into an agent, and based on that, the agent then performs an action, so what's the actions that we can do in a really simple trading system, like the most basic one? Anyone, what are the actions that we could do in the most basic trading environment? Any ideas, I well, that's exactly right. Carlos, thanks very much. I was just gonna say buy, sell, or hold, so we could buy, we could sell, but also we could take no action. Thanks, colors, so we've got these actions here, buy, sell, and hold, and so on. These actions basically then influence our environment again, and what's also interesting is when we perform an action based on the outcome of the action, we actually get a reward, so if the action was a good one, we get, let's say, a positive reward or a high reward. If the action was not so great, our reward won't be so great either. So that also gets then submitted to the agent, and basically the agent learns which actions, um get given a certain state get rewarded and which ones get punished, and so this whole system then ends up being this equation, and if you really want to go. Very deep into this, there's actually a lot of good stuff for free online, even if you go to the Wikipedia page, that gives you quite a lot of good ideas about this, and I want to go into it a little bit, but not too deeply. So, what we have is this interesting, yeah, super insight: buy, sell, or don't trade. So we have this really interesting thing here called a Q value, and the Q value is you would call this effectively an unrealized reward. So we've got a reward that comes with a certain action, and so you know, eventually when we have a trade, we're going to enter the trade, we hold, and eventually we're gonna sell, and then once we sold, then we get a distinct reward, which is this one here, so we get this final reward, but we've also got this q function here, and this Q function basically gives us an intermittent reward, so we perform an action, so for example, we perform the action hold given a certain state, we don't necessarily get a reward because we haven't actually closed our trade yet, but we get this sort of imaginary reward, and this imaginary reward is based on a state and an action, just as we see in the diagram here, and so what we do is, if we want to make a decision, what we're going to do next, we basically say, well, whatever gives us the maximum reward given a certain state and action, so given a certain state, whatever action we perform here, so whether we do buy, sell, or hold, whatever is the highest of those, gives us the new state, and that's that's basically a backward recursive equation, so when we train our model. What we're doing is we're actually going backward in time, so this is for example time t, and this is time t minus one.

Speaker 1  1:34:44  
it. Just to make sure that. Hello, and welcome back to Deep Reinforcement Learning for Trading. Just, if you can hear me, please send me a message in the questions box. I would really appreciate I'm back online, and you can actually hear me. Oh, thank you so much, everyone. Really appreciate it. Thanks, Mani Kannan, thanks Marta, thanks Shreyas, thanks Subin, and Carlos. So, really appreciate you coming back to me. Alright, so I hope you had a bit of a rest. I had a nice cup of tea in the meantime, and let's just dive back into this deep reinforcement learning. So, as you can see, you know, we had a bit of a lead up until we get there, and there is a good reason for that. It's basically, you know, you could literally just copy and paste the code that I've provided, you know, with the lecture here, and that would be, you know, you know, it would kind of work, but what you really want is to actually get an understanding of what's really and truly going on, because unless you really do this, you're really still flying blind, you could just trust your all your decision making to a machine, but it's really not a good idea. So, for example, if you're a fund manager or portfolio manager in a firm, and you then, you know, have maybe some drawdown, which is inevitable at some point, everyone has drawdowns now, and then then you know, if your investors ask you, well, why was that drawdown, and all you can say is, well, I didn't cause that drawdown, it was my machine, and I have nothing to do with it, you're probably gonna be fired straight away, you know, no one will be interested in your answer, so it's really quite important that at least what you're doing, you really understand it deeply, and once you understand it, you also need to know how to explain certain drawdowns and what to do with them to your investors. Of course, if it's just your own portfolio, then you don't need to do any of this, but you still have to think about, you know, would I trust my life savings, for example, to a machine that makes these decisions I may or may not understand, so this is quite some important considerations, and you know, whether you plan to trade your own money or other people's money. This will always come up at some point, and it's going to be really, really important. And your attitude towards this actually will be extremely important as well. I mean, I know this for myself, you know, over the years how my view and my attitudes towards certain ways of trading have changed, and how this affects also my style of trading and my decision making, and so on, because despite the fact that we are running fully automated systems, there is still quite a few decisions to make, nevertheless, and you know they can often really cause your success or failure as a trader, all right. So, um, now that we basically get the idea that that we have deep reinforcement learning being a combination of the Bellman equation and deep neural networks, the next question is, how do we wrap this into a trading system? Because originally, what happened was that these deep reinforcement learning machines were actually built to build for gaming, so they were applied to gaming issues or gaming problems at first, and they basically used this to train gaming engines to win games, and you see on my screen here my favorite game called Pong. I think most of you will probably be not old enough to even recognize that anymore, but basically it was one of the first computer games ever. I remember as a kid we were playing it, and what's interesting is when you actually look at this game, and so in that sense, many games anyway, you will see that it actually has the elements of trading built in, and so you know we've got obviously the reward function is here, so this is the score. Effectively, the state is the movement of this cursor, or whatever you want to call it. You know, it just goes and bounces around. Don't know, whatever. Oh, this was not exactly an angle where it would bounce, but should know this as a physicist.

Speaker 1  1:12:11  
And so you say, well, this is actually kind of weird, because this is a look ahead bias, but remember, this is not actually this is not actually for trading yet. This is just for training the model. Okay, so we got t here, and then we step backwards in time, and we get t minus one, and what we want to do is we want to basically get these values for q, because what Q actually is, is called a state action table. So, what we have here is a, you know, we have a state and an action. Also, that's not quite right. We have an action here on the X. We have certain states, and then we have a table here. So this is actually a kind of a physical table, and so our actions here are basically buy, sell, and hold, so we've got, let's say, buy sell hold, and for each of these we have a q value, so there's like a q value here, q value here, and my pen is kind of hard with a check pad, so we have these q values here, and then what we can say is, well, given a certain state of the market that we have, we just pick this row, and then we go, which one is the maximum q value here, and whatever the maximum q value is, is the one action that we pick. So, let's say the maximum q value is this, then we go, okay, we're holding, and the q value, or this table, is basically populated by this backward-looking equation, and again, don't forget, this is not actually for trading, it is actually just for training the model, so there is a backward looking element to it, but, but you know, not for, not for trading. Now, this is in fact exactly how deep reinforcement learning works. Now, in deep reinforcement learning, there is one thing that is different, because, as you can imagine, a market states are extremely complicated. There's so many different features in a market that could contribute it to the market state. As I said, you know, there may be technical indicators, there may be market sentiment, there may be macro climate, macro economics. Or there may be fundamental data of the companies, and so on. There's many, many, many different states, or many different things that basically could contribute to the environment, and so if you actually write out a proper table, that table would have quadrillions of entries, it would be phenomenally huge, and so it's basically impossible to do that, and so in order to do this in practical terms, what we actually do is here we replace that Q table with something that we've already talked about, which is deep learning, and so this is where deep reinforcement learning comes from, because instead of using a Q table, a physical table, which is effectively shallow, we actually use deep learning on neural networks. So this Q table is basically replaced with a neural network, and that was that's what basically makes deep reinforcement learning so powerful. We have this interesting approach here, which is from optimal control theory, or Bellman equation, whatever you want to call it, and then we replace this with neural networks, and this is what I'm talking about here, so what we're doing is effectively we're saying, okay, we've got an agent given a certain state, there's a certain action, and then our neural network will then calculate the reward for the dog given a certain state and actions, and so Q tables are then replaced by this thing here called a neural network. All right, now, so I've been talking quite a lot and been going on for quite a bit, so I really think it's time for a break now. So, because we have a nice day today. Let's give ourselves a 20 minute break. So, for me, it's just 17 minutes past the hour, so 20 minutes, so it's 30, so let's call it. We go 35 minutes past the hour, and for people in India, that's five minutes past the hour we reconvene, then and gives you a little bit of time to relax and to chill, and then I see you in a little bit. Thanks for listening. Thank

Speaker 1  1:39:39  
And then you've got also this thing here, which basically moves up and down, and basically prevents that ball from going into the goal, and so this is effectively this could be your action as a trader, so if you move up, it could be buy, if you move down, it could be sell, if you stay put, it's just hold. You know, and then here, this is the reward, obviously, is whatever your trading P and L is, and the state is effectively the state of the market. So, for example, if, if the ball, or whatever you want to call it, is here, and you can see the trajectory going this way, then you just take some action, perhaps, and move your cursor down, just to deflect it, and so on. So, once you do this, you could basically say, well, actually, I can just look at my trade as, as a computer game, you know, and I can, in a sense, gamify my trade. So I basically get into the market and say, okay, I'll just go, and I treat it as a computer game, and hence I write my code similar to computer game, and yeah, hopefully this will give me some interesting, you know, some interesting results, and so before I go into actually showing you some of the code, because clearly what I've explained to you here is not just theoretical, it's actually very practical, and it's really something when you consider it that really makes you build better trading strategies, then we can see. Oh, okay. This is actually really, you know, stuff that we can use. But before we go into this, I show you just, just the very basic makeup of a neural network. And neural network sounds really grand and complex, but if you just go to say Claude or Chat GBT, and you say to Chat GPT, "Hey, build me a really basic neural network from scratch in Python, and use the minimum amount, minimum lines of code you can possibly write, you will find that you can actually build a neural network with very few lines of code. I would guess it's about less than 20, so you can actually build this whole architecture that underlies this with a very, very small piece of code. Now it's not going to be optimal, it's not going to be fast or anything, but the underlying structure of this is really not that complicated. In fact, all do you see here? So, so I explain to you in a moment what this does, but all this does is actually just what we call in mathematics dot products. So sometimes you can see this, so you know you've got like two vectors, a vector w dot a vector, say V, you know, maybe sometimes they'll denote it like this, so this is what's called a dot product, and a dot product basically, when you look at it in a sort of written out, you have, say, two vectors here, you know, you got w1 say w2 w3 then you.it and then you've got another vector here, so this is v1 Sorry about my writing here on the screen, is not easy with the trackpad, so you got these two vectors, and then what you do is you multiply these, and then you multiply those, so it's the x, y, and z components, and then you add them up, so you just add them up, and then that gives you your, your final dot product, and so most of what you see in these neural networks is actually just a result of dot product, and there is also one what's called a differentiation here, so, so you know it's got to be somehow differentiable. Now, let me explain this to you. So the first layer we have is the inputs, and so inputs in terms of our market, so that would be the state of the market. So we've got an input here, let's just say I don't know, the R. Let's just keep it simple.

Speaker 1  1:44:22  
Say the RSI is at 90, and then I don't know, we could say the previous, the previous bar was an up bar or something like this, so we give that a I don't know a plus one, and so we then multiply this by certain weights here, and the weights are effectively just multipliers, and there they come in some sort of matrix format, and these weights actually. Determine what the neural network does. All this other stuff is kind of fixed, but the weights are basically giving you the specifics about your neural network. So, what we do is we multiply this by one with a weight, and that arrives at this thing here, which is called a hidden node, and so we have this here as well. I, too, has another weight in this case, w3 So we multiply I two with this w3 and it arrives here as well. And then we sum all of them up on this node here. This is also another node, is called a bias node. I don't want to go get too deeply into it, but sometimes what we do is, in order to avoid some, some strange, spurious behaviors, we'll actually add a little bit of bias to our nodes, just, just to make them a bit more robust. But you know, let's, let's, let's not worry about this too much. Generally, what we need to understand is we've got these inputs, we multiply them by the weights, we get to a what's called a hidden node, and so this whole thing is called a hidden layer. So, usually in neural networks, we have multiple of those hidden layers connected by all these connections, and so, what is a hidden layer? The first part of the hidden layer is basically summing up all the inputs that arrive at the hidden layer, so we basically have a sum, so this is a sum sign here, and the second part is what's called an activation function, so and so activation functions, there can be that there's many different ones that can be used in, you know, in those neural networks. Oftentimes we use some sort of sinusoidal activation functions that look a bit like this, so if the value, if the value is somehow, you know, below a threshold, then it's effectively zero. Then it goes through a transition, and if it's above a certain threshold, then it's effectively one. Um, so there are certain - we call them usually some sort of sigmoid activation functions, so they're quite common, but probably the most common one is a function called ReLU, and let me just get rid of this, so ReLU is actually a really simple function, it goes like this, it's basically up to a threshold, it's zero, and then above the threshold, it's basically just y equals x. So that's that's just a function above the threshold, y equals x, and so you go, well, why do we choose these specific activation functions, and the main reason is each of these functions needs to be differentiable, so it means that whatever you know, whatever these functions are, we need to be able to take a differentiation step, and the reason why we do this is effectively, and I don't want to go again into too much detail, but when we train the network, we actually kind of go backwards through the network to to make the network learn these weights, and so because we want to learn these weights, we actually need this differentiation, as you can see, that usually a sigmoid function is quite differentiable. Now, some of you may argue, okay, ReLU is not differentiable because we've got this kink here, and it's actually a real kink. Now, with the sigmoid functions, they're usually just really smooth, but ReLU has this kink, and that's a valid point, but this is where we come to, you know, the difference between being a mathematician and being, say, a physicist or computer scientist or something like this. So, effectively, what computer scientists have said is, okay, whenever we get a value that is right at this kink we just say, oh, it differentiates to zero, and so anything beyond that is basically one.

Speaker 1  1:49:28  
So this kink gets zero, and then you know when we differentiate the straight line here, it's always one, or the differentiation is always one, you know, if we do sorry, d over dx of x, and so our function is basically y equals x. So this is just x, and that basically gives us a one, um. Here so basically we just do this mathematical or very unmathematical trick to set this to one, but what's interesting about this ReLU function is that it's it's turned out to be incredibly powerful for neural networks, and so all of your deep learning systems, all of your, you know, Chat GPTs, and so on, they're generally based on this ReLU function. So, while it's not strictly mathematical to have a non-differentiable function and just say, oh, well, we just make it differentiable, it actually, it actually ends up being the best thing, and so once you know, once we have that, you know, once we have these weights here, we then end up at the output node, and the output node is really just again a summation of those output values with the weights we get to this output node we actually get another activation function at the output and then you know so so it says here o a 1o a two is like the activation function a two activation function a one and so on and then we get the output, which is basically, you know, the predictions. So just let's just say we have two cases. In our case, buy and sell, buy and sell. For each of these, the neural network will assign a value. Let's just say it assigns a value of 0.3 to buy and a value of 0.7 to sell. Then we're basically saying, okay, let's go with the sale. So this is effectively how these neural networks work, and this is all based on this weight matrix here, so whatever the weights are, they determine what the neural network actually predicts on the output given a certain input. Okay, so hold on, still the pen. So, how does this work? Well, it's done by optimization, and it's something called a stochastic gradient descent. So, imagine we only had two weights like this. This is just so the reason why we do this is that way because we can visualize it. So, imagine we had two weights here, weight one, and then we have weight two here, like this, okay, and so what we basically say, well, if weight one is a certain value and weight two is a certain value, that might be our starting value, so this is when we initialize the neural network. Let's just say we say weight two and weight one, they're both one. And then what we do is we do this thing called a gradient descent, and this is actually where the gradient becomes important, or the different, you know, the differentiation, you know. So, so, as you know, gradient would then be, you know, D D over D X D over D Y, and so on, times the vector, and that gives us the gradient, and wherever the steepest gradient is, this is where our optimization moves to. So, what we're doing is, we're basically moving down the optimization down the path of least resistance, and you might ask, so what is the z? So we've got the z component here, and you may ask, what is the z component, and the z component is basically the difference in the network between the outputs that we know are true and the ones that our network calculates, so if we just go back a little bit here, we get the output of the network, right? So these are these are whatever outputs the network gives us, but then we also have the true outputs that pertain to the inputs, and again we're talking about training the network right now, right? If we train the network, what we're basically saying is we look at the difference between the outputs of the network and the outputs of the real world problem, and so what we want to do is we want to minimize the outputs or the difference between the outputs of the network and the outputs of the real life problem, and this is effectively what our optimizer does. So it basically goes and minimizes that, and so what then happens is we move down this op.

Speaker 1  1:54:59  
Optimization surface here always along the steepest gradient, so we're basically calculating the gradients at the nodes, so we move down and down and down and down until we end up at the bottom here, and this is effectively at where our outputs of the network and the outputs in the real world are the smallest, and that's what's called a, you know, an optimizer, and a very common optimizer is called a stochastic gradient descent, or SGD. Oops, I just try to get rid of the drawings. All right, here we go. So, so this is basically what this optimizer is, is called stochastic gradient descent, or SGD. So, it's basically a gradient descent with a stochastic element to it, so we're not actually, because mostly you know I said here we have w1 w2 but in those large neural networks we literally have millions of dimensions here, and because there's so many, it would actually be computationally quite inefficient to use them all, so what is stochastic gradient descent? This is usually just picks some at random and goes down that path, and you can show that this will still lead to an optimal optimization that is pretty good, but with a lot less computational resources. Now, in order to show you that what I'm saying is not just pure theory, but it's actually practice, I want to just go back to the code that comes with the lecture here, and I just want to show you a little bit the parts of this, and so if you want to follow along yourself, I recommend actually just to just look at it and maybe have a look later and just see if you can use the code and run it, and so on, but what we're actually doing here is we're actually building this neural network ourselves, and this is a program called TensorFlow, in which I'm doing it, and this is actually, you know, nowadays people use another one called PyTorch, which is a lot more popular now, but you know, TensorFlow used to be the most popular and it obviously changes quite a lot, but it doesn't really matter, because what this does is really actually quite nicely illustrates how a neural network is built. So, what you do is here you create a model, and you call it sequential, meaning it's actually got a sequence of layers, and then you add an input layer, and then you tell it what the shape of this input layer is. Usually, basically, what it means is you have to tell them how many nodes the input layer has, or how many features it has, or something like that. And then the next one is what's called a hidden layer, and you know, you, you give it the name Dense, is usually called dense. You also tell it how big it is in this bit here, and then you also, you also tell it what activation function you want, and if you go back to some other parts of the code, you will actually see that we're using an activation function called ReLU here, because it's just such a common activation function. Now you can see there is another layer we basically use. We add this layer, we use, you know, we have the size of the hidden nodes here, we're basically using the same as the input length, but here we use another hidden size, which is usually a bit larger than the actual input itself. One sec, so we've got this, and then again we define an activation function. Normally we just use the same activation functions for all the layers, and then, um, finally we have our output layer here, and you can see here we define the number of the actions, and so this could be, you know, by cell, that would be two actions, or by cell and hold, three actions, depending on on what you want to do, and then you can see that we have another activation function here, and this activation function is called softmax, and softmax works a little bit different from ReLU. You remember ReLU was this one, and so what softmax does is it actually a.

Speaker 1  1:59:59  
M basically takes the outputs and assigns probabilities to each output, and all these probabilities at the outputs sum up to one, so when you know I gave you the example earlier, you know we had buy and sell, and so you know we have maybe 0.3 at buy oops 0.3 and then we have 0.7 at cell and so this always sums to one and so you know what you can then do is you can say well we have a much higher value for cell so this is what we're going to do and so softmax, so the outputs that normally come out of here are not really these values, but then what softmax does, it actually turns them into those probability values, and sometimes that makes it much easier to deal with this. Now one of the other things, so okay, so now one of the other things that we see here is this thing called loss function, and the loss function is effectively the function that calculates the difference between the real world values and the outputs, so there's different ways of doing that, you know, you couldn't just basically calculate all the differences and sum them up, but there's actually some much more complex loss functions, and depending on what sort of system you use, you can then pick and choose the type of loss function that you want, and often will give you quite different results, and you know, for specific problems you generally use very specific loss functions. Now, another thing I want to show you is, which is also interesting, if you go to experience replay here, right to the bottom, you can actually see this thing here, and if you remember, perhaps from previous, from a previous slide, you can see that this is very much looking like the Bellman equation, so this discount, sometimes it's called discount. I called it in my equation gamma, you know. There's different ways of naming it. Then you remember Q was your Q value or Q table value. Then we had the reward, the final reward, effectively that you get for this whole game, and then the targets is basically the same Q table, but the previous one, and what you do is here you maximize, or you find the maximum of that value. This is actually what you do here, so you can see this here, NP max Q predicts, so you do you calculate the Q value using the neural network given the state, and then you have three actions coming out of this model, and then you just find the maximum, and that gives you that Q SA here, which is then moved into here, and then solves the Bellman equation, so this is effectively how this works, and then a bit further down we actually also define our other values here, so for example, the loss function MSE means mean squared error, so that's effectively one of the loss functions that we can use for this most sensible, and then here ReLU is our activation function for the network, and somewhere is also we also define the stochastic or SGD, the stochastic gradient descent, which is our optimizer, and I forgot where we had that, so that would be reward function and the loss function, and somewhere in here, or maybe we just use the default one, that's also possible, so you know we can define different types of optimization function, quite often SGD is used, which is stands for stochastic gradient descent, but people also use other ones. A famous one is Adam, and this Adam is used in a lot of deep learning models. So, Adam is basically like stochastic gradient descent, but in stochastic gradient descent you have to define a learning rate, whereas with Adam it adapts automatically. So, so it actually adapts to learning rate, so that makes this optimize a little bit more efficient and faster, effectively, and more, more specific, so I hope, I hope you could all see this, so this is effectively just showing you that whatever we discuss here is not just pure theory, but this actually really, really reflects in code, and I just see on my screen that screen sharing is paused. Can I just ask every everyone to maybe let me know if you can see my screen at all, that would be really useful, so if anyone can help me out. Oh, it's okay.

Speaker 1  2:05:47  
Okay, thanks, Subin. Oh, it's visible. Thanks, everyone. I really appreciate it. Yeah, because, because I get this funny message here right now, and I wasn't sure whether there was any issues or not, so seems like it's all good, all right. So now we come, we basically set up our neural network, we come to the optimization, we gamified our trades. Oh, by the way, this is also this is also done here in the code, let me just quickly show you this. There is a function or class called Game, and in that game we're effectively setting up our system so that it looks like a trading game, and probably the most interesting part of that is Is down here, and what we're doing is we're creating a feature set. So, what I've done here is I just used a number of technical indicators, and so there is, I think, screen is stuck. Oh, okay, okay, let me just see. Can't see what's highlighted now. All right, okay, okay. Screen is frozen. All right, let me.. oh, okay. Looks like there is an issue. Okay, so let me go back, I Can you see the screen again now? And if I draw around the box around hold, is that can you see that? And now I draw a box around by no. Okay. All right. Oh, okay. Let me stop sharing and then try again. Sorry about that. Ham not sure what's happening here.

Speaker 2  2:07:48  
Okay, share screen.

Speaker 1  2:07:53  
I have a feeling if I switch between the screens there was an issue there. Okay. Okay, oops, can you see the screen now? Visible now. Okay, great, great, fantastic. Thanks so much, Anusha. Thanks, Steve. Thanks, Subin. Really appreciate your feedback. So, it looks like we had an issue there with the code, but anyway, so we're basically setting up this this game, and so in the code you can see that there is actually a class game, and in the class game, what we're doing is we're setting up different input features, and the input features basically tell us something about the state of the market, and so in the game here, in this very simple one, we just see the state of the market are just the x and y coordinates of this cursor, but obviously in trading it's a lot more complicated than than that, and so in the system that I set up, I actually use technical indicators mainly to set up my feature set. I also use some time components, so I just the hour of the day, the day of the week, you know, the day of the month, and so on. Sometimes these can give us some interesting insights as well, and they can help us to make better trading decisions, and so when we do all this we can effectively do this just as we would in a sort of game such as this and as I said it before one of the things that we need to make sure and establish is that our input. And our inputs effectively have some sort of informational content, so for example, if, if you trade, I don't know, let's just say gold futures, and then you say, okay, my input feature is the temperature at Antarctica that has probably not an awful lot of information and value to trading of gold futures, so when you feed features in into a trading system, and I mean, you know, like you think it sounds trivial when I say this, but it's actually not, because I've seen it before. People just throw everything at it in the hope something will stick, but it really doesn't quite work like this. You have to really think about what you give the trading system beforehand, a little bit at least, to put things in that are sensible. If you don't do that, then most likely your trading system will not be able to give you sensible answers, and I mean, I know this sounds terrible, but I have actually seen people, quite a lot of people, that do exactly that, they just pick whatever they can, feed it into the trading system in the hope it will just auto magically spit out the right things, but it won't. You have to really sit down and think about it long and hard, and so one of the things that you need, if you, for example, trade on price action, there needs to be some auto correlations, some cross correlations, some auto correlations, something of this nature, because really, if you don't do that, otherwise it, you just won't get any good results, it's just impossible. So, please, you know, I know it sounds trivial, but, but please, when you set up your system, think about this. It's really important, and the better you choose your features, the easier it will be for a machine to learn and to make good decisions. It's, yeah, as much as it sounds serial right now, when you actually sit down and think about, oh, what good features, what good features I could give it. Then the world looks quite different, and suddenly you're faced with some quite non-trivial things and actions that that you have to do in order to get this to get this right. So, please make sure you, you're really thinking about this a little bit now. Here comes the first test. So, once we've set this up, and you know, like you, you could, for example, just use the example code that I've provided. Now, nowadays, you know, you have models out of the box, and there's things like gym, and so on, where you can basically get deep reinforcement learning right out of the box. You don't really have to think about it much anymore. You just give it some parameters, and it will run for you.

Speaker 1  2:13:16  
But again, you know what this is really lacking is an understanding of how this works on the in the guts, and what I tried to do is with this piece of code that I showed earlier is to really give you some, give you some insight into what actually, what actually looks like to create the nuts and bolts of a deep reinforcement learning system, so you can follow it along, follow the code, and actually see this is how it's done. Because once you understand it better, you can actually make much better decisions, also in how to set it up correctly, and that ultimately leads to better trading outcomes, so in order to test it first, I would highly recommend not using price data straight away, because you don't really know when you train it on price data what it will actually do, and so one way of doing it is to put something in that is a little bit like price startup, but it's way more predictable, and in my case it's just what I did is to start with it's just a pure sine wave, so it's just a wave, you know, you remember sine waves from school, so it's just a wave like this, and so you know this is not exactly a trading price is just much more predictable, but it basically mimics a price, and so let's say it oscillates between minus one and one, and so we just feed it to the machine instead of price data, and what the machine really should do is it should. Somehow pick up after a while that this is a sine wave, and then trade accordingly, and you can see this here. So, at the beginning, the machine is still figuring out what it's meant to do, so you can see there's no profit, but once it starts to pick up on it, it actually just starts to realize like really serious gains and so you know the machine obviously starts learning, hey, I know what this is, it's a side wave, I can predict it, I know what's coming, and so if you don't see that, then most likely your problem isn't set up correctly, so there's probably still some some issues, and you need to fix it. It's really, really crucial to use those toy problems first and make sure they actually work before you put the machine out in the wild, because otherwise you won't be able to trust your results at all. You should really see these little things happening, so once we have the sine wave, we can then move on and basically do the same, but with a more noisy sine wave. So this is what you see here. So it's actually like a sine wave, but what I do is I add some noise to it, so it's really, it's really still a sine wave, but it's noise, and so you can see that it's quite a bit harder for the reinforcement learner to pick up what it actually is, and you can see it's a much longer period here of indecision, but once it picked it up, you can see that, hey, you know, I can see it now, and starts to, you know, make some profits and be a bit better at it. So, this is this is effectively a test, and what you want to see is that eventually it sort of starts to learn what the sine wave looks like, and then in next test we're basically moving to real data, but instead of using the full data set, we use a five day moving average, so this is this blue is the real underlying data here, and the orange is the moving average, and so the moving average has quite a bit more auto correlation in it, and you can also see actually that when this is the case, then the reinforcement learner does a pretty good job in picking this up and actually being profitable, so that's quite nice to see, so you want to see all these, you want to go through all these tests first, and actually understand, hey, is this working the way it should? And so, if, if you don't see that, then you're just probably something not quite right.

Speaker 2  2:17:59  
Now,

Speaker 1  2:18:00  
once once I've done all this, this is quite, this is quite funny. I actually let the reinforcement learner run loose on just the S and p5 100, and what you can see here is the machine just went into a buy and hold, it, it actually bought, and it sort of learned something, and then it said, well, actually, given from given what I see in the price data, I don't even want to sell, I just want to hold, and I looked at this initially, and I thought, oh, bother, what's that, suppose you know that doesn't, that's not fun. Like, I've got this machine learning tool, it's really sophisticated, and then it just makes a decision to just buy and hold, and then, and I go, well, this is dumb. And then I thought, well, there's people like Warren Buffett, and at the time, at least, maybe not these days, in the times of some serious financial instability, but, but back even a few years ago, if you had asked investors like Warren Buffett, they would have said just put your money in the S&P and just don't, just don't do anything, and just let it run, and just wait, and so my question then is, okay, if someone like as smart as Warren Buffett recommends that maybe my machine is actually pretty smart, or maybe it's just really dumb and just doesn't really want to sell. Now, now, the thing is, what, what it is, whether it's one or the other, we will probably never know, and that, that's the truth, we will probably don't really, or maybe we will at some point, but, but right now, we can't really tell whether the algorithm makes a really, really intelligent decision here to buy. And hold or it just makes a really dumb decision and says, well, I'm just not selling, and that's it. So I just want to tell you what, because when I saw this first, I thought, well, it's a really dumb decision to not trade, but thinking about it a little bit deeper, I go, well, yeah, it might be dumb, but maybe it's not actually as dumb as I think it is, and I really, you know, with this example, I really want to, I really want to inspire you to think more deeply about, about what results in these situations could really mean, not that I have the answers, but often we don't have the answers, but just purely by deeper thinking it gives us more interesting and better ideas. So, sure, I said S p5 100 equal weight ETF buy and hold. Yeah, that's exactly right. So it's just the S p5 100 ETF, just basically it's not the actual equal weight ETF, it's the market cap, so the SPY is the market cap weighted ETF, right? So there's another one, which is an equal weighted one, but that's not the SPY. I forgot, I think it's the SHI, maybe I'm not sure exactly, but yeah, this is this is not the one. RSP, thanks. I'm glad you helped me out with this one. So, you know, equal weighted ETF, whatever you, you know, whatever you, you want to do, either way, you know, it's the most important thing, is once you see a result, don't just dismiss it outright. It's often better to sit down and think about a bit more deeply what it actually could mean, and how you could then react to it with your decisions of how you build your system, so you know, obviously we're traders, and we don't necessarily want a system to be just, just, you know, just not do anything, and just buy and hold, but we wanted to do something more interesting. Our shares, as which is better, SP, why or RSP? Oh, I can't tell you that this is, this is something for you to find out. I wouldn't say there's any better or worse, you know, in certain circumstances one might be better, in other circumstances another one. So, so you can't really say that outright, but but one thing you can do is, in order to, for example, you say, well, I actually want this to trade at least once a day. You can then go and design your reward function a little bit better.

Speaker 1  2:22:51  
So right now my reward function was just pure P and L on exit, and with that it basically ends up being buy and hold, so not not so great, right, and but but let's say we want to do a little bit more trading, we could actually just use some other reward functions, for example, what's the profit per tick, what's the sharp ratio of my trade, we could punish our system for long hold times, so if it holds for too long, we just take away a little bit from the P and L. We could get a punishment for drawdowns, so if the draw downs are too big, we punish it. We could use binary win loss, so instead of saying, oh, we made this the reward is the P and L, we just say the reward is one for a win and minus one for a loss, you know, and there's some other ones as well. So Nicola Nicolai just asked a question here, How does this buy and hold behavior change if you modify the loss function, for example, by punishing drawdowns? More. Yeah, exactly. It's not actually that you modify a loss function, it's you modify the reward function. You usually, the loss function is something you set at the beginning, depending on what the nature of your outputs is. For example, if it's is categorical, is it is it just just linear output function, or whatever. So, so depending on that, you set your loss function, but then the loss function stays as it is, but actually it's the reward function, Nikolai, that that really changes the trading behavior, and this is something I gave you here, and so if you look at the code, you will actually find that I have a whole list. Of six or seven loss functions as options that you could try to use, so I don't want to move back to the code again, because it might actually be that my screen gets lost again, so for some reason my setting is such that I can't really switch my screen, but hopefully if you just have a look, you will find that there are some of the loss functions that I'm describing here and there. So, Maynak asked, can you please suggest some use cases which was tried in options in the options trading space? Well, you know, actually, I know that there is a few people that, that use this sort of stuff in the options trading space, but you know, there is, there is a lot of, there is a lot of things where it could be used, and probably too many for me to explain, because you know you couldn't, for example, look at specific kinks in the volatility surface, and then see whether there is some outliers in your volatility surface, you could, for example, and this is probably an interesting one, have the reinforcement learning reinforcement learner suggest different spreads that you could use in different market conditions, so for example, you know you feed it prices of the underlyings, and then what you could do is, for example, you could say, well, okay, suggest me whether I should use, I don't know, a long straddle or a back spread or calendar spread or some condor or something like this, depending on on what it sees in the market, so what you could do is basically you could get the reinforcement learner to give you some categorical output, and basically say, oh, this would be the best spread to use, and then maybe you have another machine learning tool, or something like this on top that then calculates the best strikes and expires for these spreads, something like this, so there's literally endless use cases for this, and really the job of a quant trade or quant researcher is also to be creative in finding the best use cases and some of the interesting things, so as I said before, it's a bit like, you know, you got to kind of know the whole domain that you're working in, and then find little pockets that people haven't really exploited yet all that much, and actually then you know go into these pockets and find the most interesting results there, I guess. This is always, you know, big part of our job to do it that way.

Speaker 1  2:28:10  
So, the thing is, then what I cannot really do is suggest to you specific trading strategies, and so on, because whatever I suggest may already be outdated by the time I'm talking about it, and then I tell you, oh, you should really do this, and then you go, and you lose some money, you'll be very disappointed. So, hopefully, hopefully, you will, with a bit of research, come up with your own ideas, and make them work for yourself, so one of the other things that is really quite important, and I said this before, is the features you select, and here I just gave you a little list of the different features that you could potentially select, so in my case, what I did is I used open high low close values, open high, low, close volume, and I apply this to some technical indicators, so you know a lot of these technical indicators to use those open high low close volumes, but what I also did is I use them at different time granularities, so I basically calculated the open high low close values for five minutes for one hour and one day and then I applied this to the technical indicators, calculated the technical indicators values to different grind time granularity, and so I end up with actually a large number of combinations of indicators, and then different time granularities as well. So another thing that I put in there was the time of the day, day of the week, and time of the year, because a certain scenario. That you would, where you would have a guaranteed buy on a Monday might actually be, or the same scenario might be a guaranteed sell on a Friday. So, time of the day, and all these things, in my opinion, are definitely important. Um, the same scenario at different time, you know, might actually lead to something completely different. Then another thing you might want to consider is other instruments that are somewhat related or correlated also with your baseline instrument, so we let's say we trade the S and p5 100 ETF, you know, you might go, okay, what about the 10 year bonds? What about gold? What about the oil price? Are these, are these maybe related, and can I get some interesting information out of them, which I could also feed into my deep reinforcement learning machine, and then finally alternative data, that's obviously a no-brainer. So we could go sentiment data, any type of news, economical economic data as well, macro economics, fundamental data, and so on, and you know, there's this, there's no end interesting data sets that you could feed to the machines, and I know people who do this, they, they actually collect a large amount of these, and then feed them in, and basically let the machine do its thing, of course, the more data inputs you have, the more computing power you also need to get this running, and the question is, of course, always, do you need this all now? One thing to get around this sometimes is, if especially if your data are continuous, then you could actually run this through a principal component analysis, do a dimensionality reduction of your data sets, so you're basically compressing your data sets using PCA a little bit, and then your reinforcement loan or your neural network will just calculate quicker and give you results more rapidly, and so that can sometimes help to get things working a bit more efficiently. All right, so after all of this, the question is, you know, what have we learned, and so you know, obviously we, you know, we can run this reinforcement learning thing, and we can let it loose into the wild, but you know, it's really important for us to do quite a lot of tests, and as you could see from, you know, the feedback that I showed you at the beginning, and my own research, this things do work.

Speaker 1  2:33:03  
Now there is a difference between, say, these deep learning machines working and actually outperforming traditional strategies, and one thing I have to say, and this is this is this is just for you, I find it's very, very interesting to use deep learning for this sort of stuff, but what I also found is that I have never seen a deep learning system that actually outperformed quote unquote traditional strategy, so there's obviously advances advantages to deep learning systems, in a sense that you don't really have to come up with a strategy, but you still have to very carefully craft your inputs, you have to very carefully set up your system, and so on, so in some ways it's probably just as work intensive as devising a traditional strategy, but then you know a lot of you are perhaps data scientists who have quite a lot of experience, maybe more experience than I do with deep learning systems, and you could potentially find like really good ways to make this work. Now, personally, I have run these systems, but I have to tell you that there is one thing that still stops me from deploying them fully into a fund, and it's basically the lack of explainability for your clients. So, if something doesn't work out or goes wrong, it's very easy to explain why things don't work out when you have a traditional classic factor model, for example, but with a deep learning system it's actually very, very hard to then tell your clients, okay, I don't know why this is not working, because it's just a. Machine making decisions, and most likely you would get fired there, and then on the spot, because no one would really, you know, say, "Well, okay, let's just trust this machine and let's get this guy off, get this guy off the hook. So, there is very, very real-world implications in doing it, but nevertheless, I mean, in my opinion, I think it's definitely the future, so we will see much more of this in the future, and it's definitely coming at us, and as large language models improve, reinforcement learning improves, and so on, we will see a lot of this being into being incorporated into trading and Shreya says fire the machine instead of the human, yeah, that would be great. Oh, just check, chuck the machine out and get a new one. Well, it'd be nice if it was that easy, Shreyas, but unfortunately we're not living in that world yet. Maybe we will soon. All right, so what lessons do we learn? So one is that reinforcement learning definitely easily over fits if we're not careful. So what you really want to do is, and this is true for any trading strategy, really try to minimize the number of parameters that you use, and so in my case, I would say that it's probably preferable when you use a neural network with smaller numbers of parameters, simply because it's most likely a bit more robust than a large language model, for example, with a few, you know, with 10s of billions of parameters and just the chance of overfitting is extremely high, and then you know reinforcement learning often learns very basic market patterns, so when you, when you run this deep reinforcement learning systems, and you run it for quite a while. What you will see is that initially it actually learns very basic market patterns, and so if you keep running over longer periods of time, it will start to learn some more intricate patterns, but it's often hard to necessarily - it's not often easy to know when this is going to happen, and sometimes if your data are not set up right, it will probably never do it.

Speaker 1  2:37:29  
So, in a sense, it's a little bit complex to figure out what it's really doing, and one way to do this is, for example, to compare it with some really, really simple strategies, like some momentum strategies, or some mean reversal strategies, and see whether they're correlated with the P and L's that your reinforcement learner gives you, just to basically eliminate the chance of it learning like really, really simple stuff, because, because you wanted to actually react to some patterns that are a bit more unusual, because obviously, if it's just a simple momentum strategy, then it would be much easier to set it up just with a very straightforward little system that you can build in, you know, I mean, I mean, Claude can probably build it in two minutes, so you know there's clearly a lot of research to be done, and it's not enough to just go and say, "Hey, Claude, just give me a deep reinforcement learner and make sure it's going to work. Unfortunately, Claude won't be able to do this for you. It will give you a system, but then you have to still do the research yourself. Now, this is another one that, that is there, that needs to be regarded, is the zoo of hyper parameters. So, we have quite a few hyper parameters, you know, we can pick our activation functions, our loss functions, our reward functions, our optimizer, the size of our network, and so on. So these are all hyper parameters, and it takes a bit of experience to really find the best configuration. I personally have played with this stuff quite a lot, and I have my own preferred configuration, but this is very much tied to the style of trading that I do and the type of products that I trade, and so this might be totally different, so if you ask me, or what is that exact configuration, in a sense, it's proprietary, so I can't really tell you exactly, but what I can tell you is, if you play around with it, you probably find your own configuration that works for you and adapts to the markets that you are interested in, and this will be different for everyone, I. Um, you know, reward function design, I talked about this, can be challenging if you use simpler reward functions, then that the trading system might just end up doing simple things like buy and holds, if you make them a little bit more complex, then you can actually get much more interesting trading behavior, so overall reinforcement learning is not a silver bullet, it's very interesting, because I still see it as being the future of trading, but you know, we're moving really, really fast right now in this environment of AI, and so on, that you know, and clearly this is this is part of AI, I mean, reinforcement learning is also in the large language models, you know, through human-assisted reinforcement learning, and so on. So this is definitely an interesting part of AI, and it's a very evolving thing, and I think it's very, very important for any quantitative trader to know about it, to know how it works, and at least to have some understanding of it. If you want to move into the next era of quantitative trading, I think it's this experience is indispensable, really. Now, finally, and I say this all along, if you're new to trading, get some market experience first. It's highly advisable if you, if you think you're just really good with numbers and data science, and you can just be a profitable trader. I would say I've seen very many counter examples. In fact, it's interesting to see that often data scientists don't make very good traders, because they're often in their thinking a little bit rigid. And what you have to do is, as a trader, often you have to think a bit more outside of the box. You have to be a bit more creative. You can't just like in most other areas throw some algorithm to it, because there's a difference of, for example, running a system that distinguishes cats and dogs, and working in the markets, because the markets themselves are evolving, you know, cats and dogs will probably still look the same in 1000 years or so, or maybe, maybe in 100 years at least, but markets will not.

Speaker 1  2:42:27  
So, markets are continuously evolving, and so, in order for you to really be good at this, I would highly recommend getting some market experience before you build these really complex systems, I mean, you know, there's always counter examples, but in most cases I find that I've seen the most successful people really combine their quantitative skills with the market experience, so I mean, overall you can definitely say that these new machines come up with some strategies that are very, very difficult to conceive for a regular trader, and it's very difficult to test, but it may well be that these machines are actually extremely intelligent and come up with the optimal strategies in the long run, and so it's just not been enough years yet to conclusively say that, and even the back testing that we've been running isn't really conclusive on this. As I said, I'm still running a lot of traditional strategies as well, but I have a really strong intellectual interest in this, and most likely this will be the future. So I really hope that will spark some interest now. If you haven't really built any traditional classical strategies, I would really recommend to do this first before you get your hands into it, but I've seen, of course, a lot of the students in this class here. I know you have quite a bit of market experience, so you might actually be really interested in trying something which is definitely different from your traditional financial models. Okay, so Shreya said for individual traders have decaying edge. So, how will machine learning, reinforcement learning help? I think what you mean, Shreyas, is alpha decay, where you basically trade an alpha and then the alpha over time will get diluted and become weaker, and so on. Well, this is not necessarily always the case. Sometimes alphas come and go, so what often happens is, you know, you've got an alpha, people exploit it, but then it gets published. And then the alpha starts decaying, but then what often you find is once the paper has been published, and then you give it a few years and the paper is somewhat not so popular anymore, and other things come along, then the alpha is actually coming back. So I don't really subscribe to this idea of a decaying edge very much. I've, of course, Alpha Decay is real, and you see it in the markets, for sure, but it's not like it's something you constantly have to deal with. I would say that, yes, you obviously have to update your strategies and your systems, and so on, but I wouldn't necessarily call this categorically alpha decay, so of course this is more of a philosophical discussion, and, and I'm more than happy to be convinced otherwise, but just for my own experience and what I've seen in the markets, I wouldn't necessarily say that categorically. Now we've got a few more minutes in this course, so this actually ends my official part of the of the webinar, but if any of you has any more questions, I'm more than happy to answer them now until the hour is done, so you know, please feel free to ask me something, if it's, if it's not related to it, you may still want to ask it. I'm happy to answer it, and so if anyone's interested in answers, please feel free to stick around. If you have to go, then feel free to go now. So this is definitely the end of the official part, but here's the unofficial part, and so, yeah, you can ask me some questions if you have any. Sometimes it's very valuable to hear from someone who's like myself in the trenches all day and trades and looks at markets. So, Nicolai said, in your experience, how good do reinforcement learning strategies deal with regime changes, can they learn to forecast a properly changing conditions with enough training?

Speaker 1  2:47:07  
Yes, Nikolai, they can actually, so you can actually build a reinforcement learning machine that actually that does actually give you regime changes themselves, so this is sometimes a very interesting part of reinforcement learning, just to detect and give you regime changes, or regimes, and I should say another one is where reinforcement learning is heavily used is in high frequency trading strategies like market making and so on, so for example determining the theoretical price, determining the probability of adverse selection, and so on, so you know anyway all the parameters in market making, so reinforcement learning can be really interesting for that, so Subam said, "How to create your own reinforcement learning to implement, implement strategy. Subam, so basically, what you can do is you can take my code and just adopt it for your own purposes, so just just go through it, try to understand it, see if you can see the flow of the code and get it, and then you can just just run it on your on your own instruments, for example, just as it is, see what happens, you can then go and modify it for your own needs and see what comes out of it, so really that's one way of doing it. Now, another way is that you know you, you have a look online, there's already quite a few people that have implemented reinforcement learning strategies for the markets, go and test them out, and then modify them for your own needs, and see what you can do with it. Now, as I said, it's important to understand. So, of course, this lecture is an introduction, so most people haven't really done this before, and it's actually good to understand it now, really, the next part is to look at some code that other people have written. You can obviously come up with your own, but what you can also do is look at other people's code, understand it, and then effectively modify it to suit your own personal needs, and see what you can do with it. I mean, nowadays you know it's fairly straightforward to get code. You could even ask Chat GPT, but if you will obviously not get working trading strategies from this, which is always very difficult. But what you will get is inspiration, understanding, and. You know, some knowledge. Could you please share some resources where we can get trading ideas? Well, there's about a million books and YouTube videos, and so on. So, I mean, my favorite book in trading is one called So, and this is not actually reinforcement learning, but Grinold and Kahn Active Portfolio Management is probably my favorite book. It's 700 pages, quite a bit of mathematics, but basically what it does is it gives you a really good overview of how to think about trading on a larger scale, and I mean, I always call it my bible, and all the people who work for me, they have to go and read it first before they can do anything, but there's a lot of resources for trading ideas. What you know, what I often look at is stuff like Quant Pia. Quantpedia, for example, they talk about trading ideas. There is an aggregator called Quantocracy that often gives interesting trading ideas, and I found that, you know, a lot of it is not workable, but there's actually quite some good ones as well out there, so there's definitely, you know, a lot of a lot of stuff that you could use. So, fairs are reinforcement learning codes available online other than large language models, yes, yes, there are. So, there's there's quite a few I've seen on GitHub. So, if you just look at GitHub reinforcement learning and trading, you will definitely find some resources there. So, again, the most important point of this lecture, also, was once you see this code, you most likely wouldn't, you know, if you hadn't seen this before, you, you would find it really hard to understand, and so I really wanted to give you an introduction today into this world, and so when you read code next time that is associated with reinforcement learning, you get an idea, you know, you understand what a state is, what an action is, what a queue table is, and so on, and it will give you much, will make you much better equipped going forward to use these tools.

Speaker 1  2:52:37  
Okay, so it looks like there's no more questions out there, so I'm closing the session for today. Thank you so much, everyone, for listening in. I really appreciate it. Oh yeah, sure, I said Grinold and Khan, Active Portfolio Management. That's exactly the book here, I think it's a really, really good book. Arvind says thanks very well. Orchestrated class, thank you. Both Mandel brought books already. Great, I'm happy to hear it. Yeah, it's a really good book. I think you will find it very interesting. And again, yeah, thanks so much everyone for listening in. And I hope to see you again sometime soon. And all the best with your trading. Bye bye bye.

