Unknown Speaker  0:05  
And you should be able to see the Excel now,

Unknown Speaker  0:14  
guys, you can hear me right. Let's keep to

Unknown Speaker  0:27  
All right, guys, now you can see my screen.

Speaker 1  0:35  
Perfect. All right. So you know, today's lecture to what you know, the reason why I wanted to take this lecture is because I want you to understand so, you know, we will talk about a lot of strategies and this ePAT course, or at least a lot of models. So, and in fact, yesterday, also some of the students asked me that, Nathan, how do we know that this strategy can be taken live? What are the right metrics to figure out that you know this is enough and now this is ready for execution? So what I'll do is, in the first half of the lecture, at least, I'll take a simple strategy, that of the long term and the short term, moving average, and I'll use the that strategy, and I'll evaluate against our metrics that I'll discuss with you, right? And I'll give you my thumb rules of when I need to take a strategy life. What all do I see in a strategy? And what is it that makes me feel comfortable that now it is ready for execution, right? So we have around three, four metrics that are important, and I'll give you my thumb rules again. Those are my thumb rules some other traders might use something different, but this is exactly what I use in my company also. So that's first half of the lecture, and then in the second half, I'll just give you a couple of I'll introduce you to you know, to mark some, some of the market parameters that you must have heard in in financial news and how, you know how you could understand the markets better with with those parameters. I'll also introduce you with a with a factor model, how you can build a factor model, and, you know, use some of the factors to build strategies. And then finally, I, you know, if time permits, I'll discuss a strategy that we used to run live. We used to make money out of it, but now, due to some regulatory changes, it doesn't work anymore, but, and I'll tell you the reason why it doesn't, but, you know, just, I'll just introduce you with, with the strategy that we used to trade but doesn't work anymore. Sounds good. All right, let us begin.

Speaker 1  3:15  
You know it's interesting that yesterday, there was a student who asked me that nothing, you know, I've been trading for, I think, six seven years. So he's been trading for six seven years. And you know, the issue with his strategy is that he's doing it manually, so probably emotions, you know, take control of him, and then, you know, he trades with emotions, right? So, no discipline. So you know, algorithmic trading to understand, you know, what is an algorithm? So you might say that, you know, okay, I listen to some news or some tips, and I always listen to a particular person for tips, and he tells me what to buy. And obviously, you know, the money that I spare, money that I have, tells me how much to buy. And then you know the person also tells me when to exit. So is that a comp? Is that a trading system right? So it is, what is a trading system? You want your algorithm or instructions to tell you what to buy, when to buy, and how much to buy, right, and when to exit, right? So if your algorithm does all this, then it's a complete trading system, right? But the thing that I want to add to the system is you should be able to test it on historical data or any sort of data, whether it would have worked in the past or not. And then decide whether you want to actually execute this the and, you know, my personal opinion I have, I have a lot of I have a huge problem with people who, you know, who give tips, or who listen to those tips and then trade. That might work once, that might work twice, but that is not a trading system, because there is no accountability. There is no historical data to support that. Right? As I said in my, I think in my SFM two lecture, right, Warren Buffet won a bet against the top 10 hedge fund managers that they won't be able to beat the index, right? So if the hedge fund managers are not able to beat the index, then how come a person who's giving tips beat I mean, maybe he can, but, you know, I have, I have a strong opinion against it. So whenever you are taking a trade, make sure the instructions the algorithm is telling you what to trade, when to trade, and how much to trade and when to exit. The exit part is very important, and more importantly, you can test that idea out historically. Now, the weakest link in your trading system, I would say, is you right? Because, if you because, emotions drive human beings, right? Human beings are unfortunately or fortunately driven by emotions and whenever emotions take over you, you know, the decision making goes for a toss. And that is why I love algorithmic trading, because you don't have to interfere in your system, right? You you always have to remove the weakest link. And in your trading system, if you are doing something manually, that is the weakest link. It might so, you know, as simple as a typing error, right? That that is a weak link, right? Like a couple of years ago, I think a firm lost around 200 crores, right? I gave that example, 200 crores just because of a typing error, right? So why, in this era of technology, why do we want to take that risk, right?

Speaker 1  7:26  
All right, so you know the idea behind algorithmic trading is build a model, test it out, make sure that it is telling you when to enter, when to exit, and then you know, once you have the model ready, then you have to understand the different metrics to to evaluate that strategy.

Speaker 1  8:00  
Okay, there's a question, what is the distinction between algorithmic trading and systematic trading system, systematic, you know, again, systematic trading system could be, you know, it could be, it could still be manual, right? I mean, you have a system you take all the trades manually, algorithmic system. Algorithmic trading is systematic, but with the help of an algorithm, right? All right, so let me just begin here, guys, you can see my screen right? You can see my screen like this. Okay, perfect. So now what I'll do is I will use the crossover moving average strategy to tell you to evaluate, you know, to introduce you to the different metrics that mean that I used to evaluate a strategy. First thing first, whenever you are back testing, and this is extremely important, please pay attention. I cannot underscore this enough whenever you are testing in your strategy on historical data, right? You so say you have to optimize the parameters, right? For example, in your moving average strategy. So remember the strategy, right? You have a short term moving average. Have taken five days. Long term moving average, I've taken 40 days, right? So this was the data. I'm calculating the short term moving average for five days here, and the long term moving average for 40 days here. And then, you know, I'm taking the trade whenever the blue line crosses the red line from top to the bottom and so on. Now you have to optimize this parameter. What should. Short term moving short term. Timeframe should I use? Is 540, good? Is 1050, there are so many combinations, right? What combination should I use? So you say you have 10 years of data, right? Great. Do I optimize it? Do I test these different combinations on those 10 years data and then choose the best out of those combinations? No, right? The reason is, if you are fitting parameters, you can definitely find a parameter that gives you a great result. But that does not mean that that combination will give you best results in live data. So what you have to do is you have an in you have a training set of data in sample testing, right? You train your parameters for that data. So say you have 10 years of data for eight years, right? You take away eight years of data, optimize your parameters on those eight years. Right? Choose the best parameters on those eight years and then test those optimum parameters on the left, over two years of data, if your results are similar, then those combination would work, right? And this two years of data is called the test sample, or out of sample. Testing right? So you train your data on your training set, and you test your data on your out of sample. The reason is because if see if you have six or seven parameters to optimize, right, you can definitely find some combination where you know your results would be great in those eight years of data or 10 years of data that you're testing, but it's quite possible that you're over fitting your data right. So that is why I mean, so it's like in linear in regression, right? If you, if you have to draw a line between, say, 10 points, and you take 10 parameters, obviously you will, you can draw a line through each point, right? But that does not mean that it would extend to further data. Does that make sense? Yeah, ah. Now a question here

Speaker 1  12:31  
is so couple of questions. One is, isn't back testing flawed because dynamics of markets are changing. I'll take this question in a minute. And the second question is, what about training in all data and just checking the equity curve behaved equally well in all periods? Now that is exactly what I'm saying. Even you can find parameters. You can find parameters that make you believe that you know your strategy is doing well in all the periods, right? But, but that might not happen. So what I do is, now people are saying that, you know, dynamics are changing, and I completely understand that. So what I do is, I actually, you know, so usually, and this is what most of the traders do. You can divide your data set into different phases of the market, right? So there are four major phases, bull phase, you know, we've seen, we are seeing a bull phase since we were seeing a bull phase, since covid, right? Since 2020 till around 2420 24 when the markets are just going up bear phases when the markets crash. So 2007 and eight, the markets crash. That was a bear phase four, five months of covid. There. There were a bear phase. Now two other phases, distribution and consolidation. So in both bull and bear, in bull phase, the market is going up in bear phase, the market is going down in consolidation and distribution. The market is mean reverting, right? So it is range bound. It is going up and down in a range. The difference between these phases, then, is after consolidation, the market enters a bull phase. However, after distribution, the market enters a bare phase. So if you have 10 years of data, what you can do is you can distribute your data in these phases, right? So you'll pick two years of bull phase, two years of bear phase, two years of distribution, two years of consolidation, right? So eight years, you train your data on these different phases and then optimize your parameters, and then for the leftover two years, see if those optimized parameters are working right. So now people are saying, Nathan. How do you know which phase is in? The is the market in? I frankly, don't. I don't know whether when the market would change phases or what phase the market would be in, right? And that is why historic. But historically, I know the phases right. So historically, I can divide my data see if my model is working for every phase optimize it, have a set of parameters that work for each phase, then test it out on your out of sample data, and then see if they work. It is extremely important to have this in sample testing and out of sample testing as soon as you if you're optimizing your parameters in out of sample data, you have corrupted your data, right? And it just doesn't make sense. Is it clear? There's a question, what is the best formula or indicator? I don't have a formula or an indicator just by, you know? So if I have last 10 years of data, I just by looking at it, I have divided so in my, in my data storage, I've just, you know, I have a file that tells me, okay, this period has, you know, this is in consolidation phase between, say, 2012 and 14. Bull phase between 2020, and 2024, so I don't have, for all any of my strategies, I don't have an indicator of, you know, of a phase of the market, a current phase of the market, make sense? We Yeah. So I don't identify the phase of the market in live markets, but because I've tested my model in all phases historically, I'm pretty confident that it would work in in any phase. All right? How do we make sure that we are not over fitting? That is exactly what I'm saying, right? If you have in sample data and out of sample data, then you know for a fact, so optimize your parameters for in sample. Then, once you've chosen the parameters, use them for for out of sample, make sense. So people were asking me, what is over fitting. Over fitting is that you know if you are over fitting, or data mining is if you are so I'll tell you. I'll tell you with an example. So say, you know, I, I so say, I, you know, I tested out my SMA and LMA parameters for these combinations. So, 330-330-5340 345-540-5550, and so these columns are SMA and these rows give you the LMA number. Now say one combination is giving you great results, right? However, the the neighborhood is not giving you all that good numbers, right? So say this is what is happening, right? This 540 combination, for example, is giving you 550 returns, but as soon as you change from five to 45 545 is giving you only 2% 535 is giving you minus 10% so this was 335 is giving you minus 4% now you know that this 540 so the neighborhood is very different from this outlier, right? 540 is an outlier. This is, this is sort of overfitting, if I think that you know, five and 40 is is the best combination that is not right, because the neighborhood is not agreeing there should, whenever you're optimizing, it should be a very smooth curve around the neighborhood. And this is sort of, you know, finding that particular fit that gives you great results. But again, if you use if, if this is your result for in sample, testing five and 40, I can assure you will never work for out of sample. So you don't have to worry about over fitting, if your process is right. If you're optimizing an in sample and then testing out for out of sample data, make sense.

Speaker 1  19:49  
Question, if we are in currently in the bull market, the strategy would have to work only in bull and distribution phases, isn't it? But you don't know when the market would change, right? You. The market might go down for 1520, days. It might be entering a barefoot and you would never know. So that is why it's essential that your strategy should work in all phases. All right.

Unknown Speaker  20:16  
Okay, so does does this make sense? Everybody is clear about

Speaker 1  20:30  
about historical back testing, using in sample and out of sample data sets.

Unknown Speaker  20:39  
Okay? Should I move on? Now, by the way, I just wanted to

Speaker 1  20:50  
give you a quick brief on, you know, on a utility in Excel. So, you know, I think in my in my first lecture, when I was discussing this strategy, people told me that people ask me, nothing, is there a quick way of figuring out what is the optimum value for for this SMA, LMA, for a particular stock? So essentially, what you can do is when so and this is, this is something that you must always do when you are building worksheets in Excel. It should be scalable and it should be dynamic. Now, by dynamic, I mean so SMA here, you know, I'm calculating the average of last five days, and for long term, last 40 days. Now this is not dynamic. In the sense, if I change this to 10 or to 15 or to 20, this profit is not changing, right? Because the SMA and LMA are not changing. They are not linked with these parameters, right? So whenever you are building a worksheet, you should and you have your input parameters, you should make sure that your your signals are taking these parameters are input. So how can you do it? In this example is, I'll just quickly show it to you. There is something called offset in Excel. OFFSET function would help you link your your SMA and LMA with these parameters. So in this sheet, I've linked it with this so when I do 10, see how it automatically shifts. When I do 20, see how it will automatically shift right five, so it will automatically come back. So this is like magic, right? So, how is this happening? Okay? So,

Speaker 1  23:06  
I am using something called offset. In the offset you have to give a reference so say reference cell is B 11, and then you tell it how many rows you have to go up. So say I minus is if you are going above the reference cell. If I write plus two, then you go downwards, right? So if I type minus two here, and then I want to be in the same column, so zero, then it will output 16 24.8 because my reference cell was 1622 and then it went two rows above. And this is the cell 16 24.8 is the cell that it prints right if this was plus two, I so then 1622, is my reference cell. It goes two rows down. So you can use this for offset formula. So what I'll do is we need to take the average of, say, five days right now. I link it to this cell so offset, and my reference is say, be seven right, and then I want to go five rows above, right? So, 12345, in the same column, so zero, and then I want to take the average of how many cells. You want to take the average of 12345,

Unknown Speaker  24:51  
cells, and only of this column. So one. And if I do this, I.

Speaker 1  25:00  
Then this is exactly the same as the average of these five cells, right? So this is exactly what it is doing. This is the formula that I've used. So this average offset, offset is b7 minus so from b7 you go five rows up, 12345, you have to take the average of five row so these five cells and print the average. And you only do this when you are when your row number is greater than five days. So you don't start from the first five, from the first four cells, right? So row b6, greater than k3, ensures that I'm not printing anything before my fifth cell, right? And then if you do this 10, so I'm not printing anything before nine cells, and then I'm taking the average of these 10 cells.

Unknown Speaker  26:12  
All right. Index is starting from zero, so 012345, all right.

Speaker 1  26:22  
Alright, an offset when to use zero or one. Zero is when you are in the same column. So when you are referring that you know where to go in the column. And then this one is how many columns you want to take the average of. So this is indexing right, and this is how many, what is the width? So, you know, Excel automatically tells you reference rows and columns up and left, right. And then what is the height and how many columns you want to take the average of I, you know, I don't want to spend a lot of time on this formula. You can sort of take help from Google, but in case you want to understand any formula in my Excel sheet, what you can do is click on that cell, go to formula, step Evaluate Formula, and then evaluate, so it will tell you what it is doing right. Evaluate, and then you can step in, and then step out, and then evaluate, and then again, evaluate, evaluate, and it will tell you what it is doing step by step, right. So just wanted to show you a cool, neat trip trick that Excel has one more thing. So now, when once I have linked my returns, my SMA and LMA to these, you know, I've made it dynamic, right? So all my signals, my price and returns, they're all dynamic now, right? So now what you can do is now how to figure out which is the best combination. So Excel again comes to the rescue, right? Excel again, comes to the rescue. You can build a data table. So say, if I want to test these combinations, right, I want to test SMA values for three, 510, 1525, and LMA values for 3035, 40 till 100, right? What you can do is, so just type these values here for LMA in rows and then link this cell to the output that you want to generate. So I've linked this to my profit, right? I've linked this to my profit, and then what I do is select this data, data table, my row, input cell is SMA, my column, input cell is LMA. I press OK, and it will automatically generate values. I think my Excel is a bit slow, that's why it's not generating but Okay, so now it has right, and this automatically gets generated right, and I'll just remove the formula, otherwise it will make my Excel extremely slow, clear, so, so and then, you know, you can just test it out. So, 580 gives you 169, which is exactly what you are getting here. 540 will give you 268, whenever you choose your optimum com. Nation, just check the neighborhood. If the neighborhood agrees with that value, you are fine. So it should be a smooth curve and there should be no outlier.

Speaker 1  30:15  
Make sense? Any questions? Okay, couple of questions. Can I explain the k3 part? Again? This is the PnL. This is the profit percentage, the cell that you linked here, the k3 part. So people are asking me help in this. So offset reference is b7, minus k, 3s, and how many rows do you want to go up? So one, if you are if your reference is b7, then one is b6, 2b, 5345, so it starts from b2, right? This will give you a reference of b2 cell, right? So if I just take this part of this formula, type it here.

Speaker 1  31:17  
This gives you b2 right? So this part is b2, and then I this. These two cells tell me how many rows and columns do I need to take the average of so I so this is the height, so I need to take the average of five rows, 12345, and only this column. One means only this column. So k3 and one last k3 and one tell me that I have to take the average of five rows and this one column. All right.

Speaker 1  31:56  
Optimum values get highlighted automatically. No, they don't. No, no, they don't. I've just highlighted that. This is how you will see it. This is how you'll see it, all right.

Unknown Speaker  32:09  
But then I mean, you can just find out the maximum, all right?

Unknown Speaker  32:16  
What formula did I use? Again, as I said, I clicked on this data.

Speaker 1  32:25  
What If analysis data, table, row, input cell is 540, press, OK. And automatically this gets generated. All right, okay. So this is the profit percentage, and I have, as requested, I have repeated the data table part. Should I move on? Guys? A lot of stuff to cover today. So, you know, I need to move on here. In case it's not clear. We can discuss it offline also, or towards the end of the lecture.

Speaker 1  33:12  
So this was clear in sample and out of sample and testing periods. Now comes the most interesting part. Interesting and important, I would say, what are the metrics against which you should evaluate your strategy?

Unknown Speaker  33:36  
Total profit is a no no brainer, right? The profit should be good, right?

Speaker 1  33:43  
But that is not the only thing. So if your returns are negative, there's no point bothering with any other metric, right? Your returns have to be decent enough. Now people ask me that, then what is a decent return?

Speaker 1  34:01  
It should beat the index, if you can do that. Yeah, no. I mean, on a serious note, it should definitely, you know, a good strategy will beat the index and or it should at least take care of your cost of capital, right? So if your cost of capital is 10% and if you're generating 11% that's very iffy, right? If your cost of capital is 12% but you're generating 20 24% that's great, right? The issue with total profits is it doesn't tell you what sort of risk did you take in between trades. And it's quite possible that you were down for 11 months and then suddenly there's one, only one winner, that took your profit to the greens. Right? So. So you have to understand the distribution of your trades. Distribution is extremely important. Second metric, so profits is obviously important. I've given you my thumb rule. You should definitely beat the index comfortably by at least two, three percentage points, at least on an average, and then, or it should definitely be it your cost of capital. Second metric is the hit ratio, single most important parameter or not. Single most the first thing that I check in any strategy that I take life, if my colleagues come up with a with an idea, with a back test, the first thing that I ask them is, what is the hit ratio? Hit ratio is the probability of a trade being profitable, and it this hit ratio also helps you In position sizing and let me show you how. Okay,

Speaker 1  36:32  
so see, we chose these because the profits were highest in five and 40 combination. So this is the parameter that we've used, and these are the trades that we so this is the profit that we have.

Speaker 1  36:54  
Now, how many positive trades Do you have? So in I call them, this is the returns that we have, right? These are the returns that we have right. So, these are the returns right, an i column, so the first thing that you will do is you will count the number of positive trades. So count if returns are greater than zero, and count if returns are less than zero. So my total trades are 127, 127, trades, right? 127, trades profitable are 48 loss making a 79 doesn't look great, right? But I'll tell you a difference. So hit ratio, first of all, hit ratio. Hit ratio is nothing but profitable trades divided by the total number of trades. So hit ratio is 37% make sense? So

Speaker 1  38:04  
unfortunately, hit ratio does not tell you the whole picture. So what I've done is I have what I calculate is a normalized hit ratio. This is something that I use in my form, and I'll just explain you what this is. See if your profit say, out of 100 trades, 30, only 30 are profitable, and 70 are loss making. But out of those 30 trades, the average positive returns are 10% so when you are winning, you are winning big when you're losing, right? 70 trades are lost, making you are losing small. So normalized hit ratio sort of gives you an expected value, right? So I'll tell you how I calculate this normalized hit ratio. So what I do is I calculate the total positive and the total negative returns. So my total positive returns are 30 into 10 300 and loss making. Total negative returns are 140 right. So 70 into 2% is 140 is this clear? Any questions till row four, right? So I have the total trades. I have the average positive returns on my profitable trades, average negative returns on my loss making trades. So my total positive returns are 300 total loss making returns are 140 so my summation of absolute returns is 300 plus 440 right? Just like I did my for my total trades, 30 plus 70, so 300 plus 140 so my total returns are 440 and then I'm not what is my hit ratio in trades? My hit ratio was 30 divided by 102 Normalized hit ratio, I would divide positive returns divided by total absolute returns. It is 68% so I am normalizing this as if what what would have been my hit ratio if my average positive and negative returns were exactly the same. That is why I use normalized hit ratio. Does not tell me what is my average positive and average negative if my average negative, positive and negative returns are the same, then with this strategy, my hit ratio would have been 68% make sense.

Speaker 1  40:51  
So people are saying this should be negative. This is this table is exactly like this table. So how many loss making trades, 70? How? What are the returns of this? Of these loss making trades, 140 so I'm not using minus 70 here, right? Negative returns are 140 so exactly like the hit ratio is 30 divided by 30 plus 70 so normalized hit ratio is 300 divided by 300 plus 140 make sense. My thumb rule for normalized hit ratio above 75 it is pure gold. Don't worry about any other metric, if it is 75 I can guarantee you you can execute the strategy life to get a normalized hit ratio of 75% is extremely difficult. Below 5558 below 50 or around 5558 it's very difficult to run medium frequency strategies with that normalized hit ratio. Right at 50 we are like throwing darts, right? We are tossing a coin. 5558 you know, they don't look good. Around 65 I'm extremely comfortable. If your normalized hit ratio is around 65 I'm still comfortable that depends upon my risk aversion, right? I know people who would run strategies at 6061 I am a bit iffy about it, because I'm risk averse. But again, you know, then, then you have to go on to other metrics too, right? But again, my thumb rule above 75% pure gold. I run my strategies above 63 I think the lowest, my lowest, normalized hit ratio that my strategy, live strategy would be around 63 I think 6364 makes sense. Okay.

Speaker 1  43:09  
So your the returns. So people are asking me nothing, how are we calculating the return? This is exactly how we did it in the first lecture. Right? The strategy, the signal, the trading price? This is the return. This is exactly how we did it in my first lecture. Make sense? Okay?

Speaker 1  43:39  
People are saying, this is five, is to one? Oh, this is this, is this? Is realistically possible, but you have very low profitable days are very less, right, even though the average positive returns are high. So this is this, this sort of a profile is, when you buy options, you don't lose a lot, but you lose frequently. But you know when, when the option gives you returns, the profitable days are less, but when they are profitable, they are huge. This is a very typical of an option buying option strategy that only buys options, all right, it's, very it's very realistic. Any questions on normalized hit ratio, or my thumb rule, people are saying 70 into minus. 20 is 140 again. So okay, so are you more comfortable now more comfortable. So now see the reason is you have to exactly look at this. So average positive returns are 10, average negative returns are two. So average positive returns are 300 average negative returns are 140 exactly like this. We are not for loss making. We are not. Are doing. So this is what I'm explaining here, right? Positive trades are 30, negative trades are 70. So total trades are 100. We are not 30. We are not doing 30 minus 70 here, right? So we are not doing 30 minus 140 for your summation of returns. Make sense? Should I move on? Okay, I don't need to go to the

Speaker 1  45:30  
okay. So people are saying nothing, you know, for returns you are doing. Why you're doing simple returns? Why not log returns? Fair question. Log returns assume compounding. So if your returns are positive, they would overestimate your return. They would assume that you know you are compounding your returns every day. So for return, for my PNL generation, I use simple returns that is a underestimate right of actual returns. But for my models, if I'm building my model and using my returns, historical return, stock returns, then I use log returns for my PNL calculation, and only my PNL calculation. I use simple returns for my model generation and everything. I use log returns make sense. Okay, should I move on?

Unknown Speaker  46:28  
Yeah, now you can also guys hit ratio is clear. You

Unknown Speaker  46:47  
guys hit ratio is clear yes or no. So now people are asking me the right question, was this

Speaker 1  46:56  
closed? So no, it was not closed. So I should do buy here, but you can do that. So I'm glad that you somebody pointed out nothing this last trade is not squared off, and I agree with you, ideally I should have had a buy here. All right, so yes, thank you for pointing that out. I appreciate that. Okay, okay, guys, is it clear? Should I move on yes or no? Okay, so now what I'll do is I will use hit ratio for position sizing, something called Kelly fraction guys, please pay attention. You.

Unknown Speaker  47:40  
Say, I have a strategy with a hit ratio of 35% your loss ratio is 65%

Speaker 1  47:51  
when you win, you win big 20% when you lose, you lose 10% right. Again, sort of typical of of an option buying strategy.

Speaker 1  48:09  
So if you invested $100 and you win, you get $20 so your final wealth becomes 120 if you lose, you lose $10 and your final wealth becomes 90 this is clear to everybody. So this is the strategy hit ratio, 35% out of 100 trades, only 35% are profitable. But when you are winning, you are winning 20% when you are losing, you are losing 10% say, if you have $10,000 with you, right, or wealth is w 10,000 or whatever $100,000 with you, what fraction of wealth would you invest in this strategy each time this is position sizing Right? How much money? What fraction of money should I invest each time? How do you do this?

Speaker 1  49:15  
So I have this simple Excel sheet.

Speaker 1  49:24  
Okay, don't worry about all this.

Speaker 1  49:33  
Average positive returns are 20% average negative returns are 10% your total wealth is W. Fraction that you want to invest is x. So I want to have an answer for this X. I'll just give you a simple example. If your wealth is $10,000 and say you are investing only 1% of your wealth each time in this trade, when you as. You are investing $100 when you win, you win $20 so after a win, your wealth goes up by $20 if you lose, you will lose $10 and your wealth will go down by $10 and it will become 9990 make sense. Okay? Now comes the interesting part. So you are investing, so case one is that you win. Case two would be you lose. So we are interested in both these cases. So your total wealth was W to begin with, you invest X percent of w. So money invested is x w, x into w x is a percent. When you win, you win 20% of your invested value. So 20% of X W every everybody is clear to row nine. Here, if you lose, you lose 10% so 10% of X W, any questions till row nine? So after you win, your wealth becomes w into w plus this 20% of X W, if you lose, your wealth becomes w minus 10% of X. W, make sense. Guys make sense, yes or no, so this is your final value in both these cases. If you won, your wealth becomes W into one plus 20% of x. If you lose your wealth, becomes W into one minus 10% of x,

Speaker 1  51:52  
so 10% right, so 0.1 so 10% right. So you lose this money. So it's w minus 10% of x w. So this is case one, and this is case two. Now say you won here. So this is case one a. Now you won the first time. And then again, you will have two cases a and b. You win here and you lose here. And with case two again, it will be case two a and case 2b so you win and you lose. So here I'll discuss case 2b Alright, let us see what is happening. If I won the first time, my wealth becomes W into one plus 20% of x. Now again, I'm investing X percent of my total wealth. Because I'm investing X percent of my total wealth, my money invested becomes x into w into one plus 20% of x, if I win one a, case one A, I win 20% of this value. Right? Don't get boggled down with these expressions. I'll actually simplify this thing at the end for you. So right now, you just have to understand that, you know, we are investing X percent of your total wealth. And when you are winning, you are winning 20% of the money invested. So your wealth here becomes initial wealth, w into one, plus 20% of x plus the money that you want, 0.2x into w into one plus 20% of x. This expression is the money after you want twice. And if I take one plus 20% of x, in common with some mathematical jugglery, I mean, you know, just simplifying this expression, this expression actually becomes W into one plus 20% of x into one plus 20% of x, this is when you want twice. Here, case 2b This was your wealth. What happens to your wealth if you lose? So two A was you lose once, and then you win again. 2b was you lose and then you lose again. So this was your final wealth. When you lost once, money invested is still X percent of your final wealth. You lose 10% of this money. Invested, you lose this money. So this money gets subtracted from w into one minus 10% of x, and then take common this w into one minus 10% of x, and this is the expression that you get now. This is now, let me tell you the interesting part. The interesting part is, whenever you are winning, your money is increasing by one plus 20% of x. This is like compounding. Whenever you are losing, you're losing one minus 10% of x, right? You.

Speaker 1  55:02  
Don't worry about this Excel. I will share this Excel with you. So the the point that you have to understand is, whenever you are winning, your money is increasing by one plus 20% of X. Whenever you are losing, your money is getting multiplied by one minus 10% of x. So say, if you trade three times, you win the first time, you lose the second time and you win again the third time. What will happen to your money after first trade, your money gets multiplied by one plus 20% of X after second trade, your money gets multiplied by one minus 10% of x, and after third trade, your money again, because you win again, your money, total amount gets multiplied by one plus 20% of x. So if you invest in this strategy 10 times, you win five times and you lose five times. This is your final wealth, one plus 20% of x power five into one minus 10% of X Power Five. Or in other words, if you're starting wealth is w you played 100 times you win, n times you lose, m times. This is your total wealth? Any questions, one plus 20% of x is one when one minus 10% of x is one loss? Yeah. Any questions, why is it one plus 20% of x? Because your average returns on a positive trade were 20% Why is it one minus 10% when you're losing? Because when you're losing, you're losing 10% of the money invested. Make sense? This is just, I just took this as a number. Now I will. So this is an example. I will tie it up with the with the real example. All right, this is clear. Any questions about this expression, any question about this expression that I've highlighted, everybody understands this. I'm reinvesting my profit. That is why they are multiplying it the interesting point is,

Speaker 1  57:29  
the the order does not matter. Whether you win first or you lose first. You win five times. You lose five times. That doesn't matter in compounding, if you are, say you are at 100 you increase by 10% you come at 110 then you decrease by 10% you are at 99 you will reach 99 even if you decrease first by 10% so 90 and then you increase it by 10% so you are again at 99 so ordering doesn't matter. So that is why you only need to know how many times are you winning and how many times are you losing, and your total wealth is just n times one plus 20% x and m times one minus 10% of X makes sense. So this is average. So people are saying, Hey, why 20% this is average positive returns, average negative returns, right?

Unknown Speaker  58:30  
So now, essentially what you have to do is, so this is what I had here.

Speaker 1  58:41  
Now you have to, so if you trade 100 times, you have to maximize this expression to increase wealth, right? So this is your final wealth, one plus 20% into number of times you win, one minus 10% number of times you lose. And so you have to maximize this. Now you can differentiate this with respect to x and put it to zero. Old calculus. Boy, I hated calculus. So, so and I'm sure a lot of you guys might not be comfortable with calculus, so I'll give you a simple Excel tool to solve this. So all you have to do is you have to do is you have to differentiate with respect to x and then put it to zero and then solve for x. Fortunately, Excel will help us do that. And let me show you how, just tying that up, tying this expression with our actual results. So formula for maximizing Kelly fraction in this example would be our average positive returns are 10.38 our average negative trades are minus 3% so the expression would be one. Plus average positive trade, 10.38 into x. Power, how many times am I winning 37.8% into when I'm losing, I'm losing 2.9% of X and power, how many times am I losing? Is everybody clear with this expression yes or no? So

Speaker 1  1:00:32  
is this clear? This is so now I need to maximize this maximize this expression to get the optimal value of x right. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:00:58  
x was the fraction of wealth that I invested right fraction of wealth that I invested. So I was investing x w the first time, and then x percent, or whatever wealth I had every time, right?

Speaker 1  1:01:16  
So in this example, that I took 20% winning returns, 10% losing returns out of 135% winning trade, 65% losing trade. This is the example that I took, right, 20% 10% and then where did it go? Okay, 35 and 65 right? So, 35 losses, 65% 35% wins, 65% losses. So this is right here. Now my final wealth expression is this, right? One plus 10% is now. So what I'll doing is I'm creating, again, I'm creating 100 value. So I'll, I'll figure out my fraction by hidden trial. So I'm creating, okay, what is my final What if I invested $10 to begin with, and I'm investing only 1% of my money every time. What is my final wealth? What is my final wealth? FM, if I'm investing 2% then 3% 4% 5% and then so on, so from one person till 100% what is my final wealth? If I invest all my money straight away. So my final wealth is simply one plus when winning returns b1 into my fraction of wealth invested power. How many times am I winning 3535 I five, and then when I'm losing, I'm losing 10% into fraction invested into 65 and then the starting wealth. So is this F column clear? Yes or no. How do I calculate the probability of winning and losses? Or this is your hit ratio. This is your actual hit ratio. So here, this was your hit ratio, right. Out of 100 trades, hit ratio was out of 127 trades. You are 37.8% time you are running. Make sense. Make sense, yes or no. You

Speaker 1  1:03:45  
so F column is clear, and then I plot it out and I see it. This is the plot. So, this is your total wealth. It maximizes at around 25% where did it go? Okay, yeah, here it is at 25% so at 25% this is your maximum wealth, if you now, I am quite risk averse, so what I do is you obviously start with very small numbers. Right whenever you are initially executing start with very small numbers, and then when you are comfortable, then you can increase it. You here, you should increase it to 25% I usually, my thumb rule for Kelly fraction is, I usually, you know, I I'm sort of risk covers. So I take around 50% or 60% of the Kelly fraction once it has been once, you know, I'm comfortable with the strategy I've, you know, it has had its way with, you know, I'm, I'm done with my teething issues, right when you start, there are all. Sorts of different problems. Your your system crashed. You couldn't take the trade. You didn't have the limits or whatever, right? So once you are done with all those teething issues, the optimum would be through this Kelly fraction, right for our strategy, for our actual strategy, our winning percent was 10% losing was losing percent was 2.93% this was our hit ratio. So this is what your formula became, becomes right? And then if you plot this, this is an ever growing so Kelly says, you know, this is a great strategy. You can invest 100% of your wealth here, right? But again, I obviously don't do that. I take around 50 or 60% right? But this is after the teething issue. Once you know two, three months have passed, you are done with your you know you're comfortable, you are in the green, then you can ramp it to the Kelly fraction. Make sense? Should I move on?

Speaker 1  1:06:14  
Question? Why not reduce your wealth by the amount, rather than having less percentage invested, or your wealth automatically gets reduced, right? So w minus 10% of x, right? So your wealth is reducing, right? What if you take 100% risk and everything you lose everything? Well, that is not what is happening, right? You're you're winning return. You're losing returns are only 3% this is the average, right? So this is what Kelly is telling you. And you know, obviously I'm not asking you to invest 100% of your wealth straight away, right? Take your time. Be comfortable with with the strategy. So once, when I, when I started my own strategy, I did not invest every cent that I had, right. I started extremely I remember starting trading with maybe 5% of my wealth, or even less, right. And then, you know, once I had my phone and everything I was investing, you know, 100 times more than my wealth, right? Leverage, right? Not 100 times or, yeah, 10 or 20 times more my wealth, right? So that's, that's, that's leverage for you, right? Make sense? So so this is again. Now people are saying nothing. What about the drawdown? Again? This is, this is one way of determining position sizing, right? Again, this is a flavor. This is a sort of a metric that you can use, right? Okay. This is the optimum. This is how you think about it. Now, whether you invest 100% of Kelly, 10% of Kelly, that's upon you. I personally do 50% or around 60% of it, right? That. But again, my, my role is to tell you, this is how I think about it, or people think about my role is to tell you this is how people think about it, right? This is what I do now. Rest is up to you. Make sense? Is Kelly fraction based on forward testing? No, why? I'm not. I'm not. Everything is based on historical back testing, right? There's no forward testing. How can you size taking out of sample into account, oh, out of sample would be when so calculate these parameters for out of sample testing And then optimize find out. Kelly,

Speaker 1  1:08:57  
Okay, makes sense. W is the equivalent to the money present in our portfolio? Absolutely, absolutely question, what about outliers, black swan events? So I'll come to that. I'll come to that.

Speaker 1  1:09:27  
So there's a question, won't it make sense to look at consecutive winning and losing three it's plus drawdown. I will discuss drawdown and I will discuss black swan events. That's fine, but consecutive winning trading, it doesn't matter, right? What? If you win, then you lose, then you win, then you lose. So consecutive plus minus have no meaning for me. It's like, how many trades Am I winning and how many trades Am I losing, right? That makes more sense. Okay, I need to move on. What if the scenario changes? Like that in 2025 there's what scenario change in 2025 right? We tested out for covid, right? For scenarios like covid, I think covid was way more brutal than 2025 right, financial crisis in 2700 that was way more brutal than 2020 but 2025 is not that brutal, right? So if your strategy worked well in covid, it would work excellently well in 2025 so it doesn't matter. 2025 has been relatively peaceful in terms of volatility and all VIX, okay, 50, 60% of Kelly. What do I mean by this? So what I mean by this is, if Kelly is showing me that I have to invest 25% of my wealth at 25% I would maximize my wealth. I don't invest 25% I invest only maybe 12.5 or 15% of my wealth, so 50% of what fraction Kelly is telling me? So if Kelly is telling me nothing, look here, invest 100% of your wealth, so I will only invest 50% of my wealth. Make sense? Okay, one final question, and then move on. Why do I use normalized hit ratio. Oh, because hit ratio does not tell me the it does not take into account the average negative and positive returns, right? So it's normalized rate ratio, sort of the expected value

Speaker 1  1:11:41  
people are saying, I talked about training from sample, so that was ml, right? You know, machine learning is sort of a fancy word for regression, right? I mean, it's, it's what is machine learning, right? I mean, you are essentially, you are taking different parameters, you are optimizing, you're regressing them, figuring out what is your optimum value, right? So that's what I'm saying. Training means I'm trying to find the optimum values for my parameters, for my in sample. All right, okay, guys, I need to move on to other metrics. So okay, so I have already told you about average profit or loss per trade. So I've already discussed this expectancy so people were so normalized. You know, financial industry might use expectancy. This is very similar to normalize hit ratio. Probability of win is your hit ratio, and amount that you win is your average profit or loss. I like normalized rate ratio, so I don't use expectancy, but you should know what it is. So say, if system one you are winning, your probability of win t, when is probability of win is 90% probability of loss is 10% so out of 100 trades, you are winning 90 trade you're losing 10 trades, and the amount is the same, right? However, in system two, you are winning less. Out of 100, you're only winning 40. But when you win, you win big. So expectancy in system one is point eight right. Point nine into one minus point one into one probability of when into amount that you win. So expected this is the expected value in system two. The expected value is higher 1.6 minus point six. So one, right, even though you see less number of Green Days in system two. So the normalized hit ratio would be better here. So it would be way better here, so you don't have to worry about that. All right. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:14:08  
okay. Now, so, as I said, when I you know when? When a colleague of mine enters my office and tells me nothing. I have an idea. That is, I've tested it. The first thing I asked him, What is the hit ratio, even before total profits. I asked him the hit ratio. Second thing I asked him, is the total profit. Third thing I asked him, Is the drawdown now, drawdowns are important, right? You

Speaker 1  1:14:46  
What is, what is drawdown? Right? The maximum money that you lost in a losing streak. What does that mean? You started here right with around eight, with around $18,000 you won some money, but then you lost, and then you again went up so maximum drawdown is the maximum money that you lost from the peak, right from the peak that you achieved historically. I'll give you an example, just easier with an example. So say you started with $100

Speaker 1  1:15:42  
you started with $100 after first trade, you are at 102 after second trade, you are at 103/3 trade, 101/4 is 100. So you know third trade, you lost money. Now what is your drawdown till your third trade? People say, you know, a lot of my students tell me that, Nitin, you know, my drawdown is only there is no drawdown here. I started at 100. I'm still at 101 What do you mean by drawdown? Right? Why? I mean I didn't lose money. I started with 100. But drawdowns are taken from the highest peak. So the the reason why they are taken from the highest they are measured from the highest peak, is because you don't know, historically, where are you going to start from? If I started from trade one, I'm in the red here. If I started from trade two, I'm really deep in the red if I started from trade zero, then then, all right, I'm in green. But the point is that because you don't know your starting point right in the future, you don't know where you'll start, whether you will be here, whether you'll be here, or whether you'll be here. So I want to know, what is the maximum amount of money from the peak that I've lost. So how do I do this? So maximum?

Speaker 1  1:17:25  
What? Right? So, maximum money that I so till here I'm finding out the maximum, and then I'm figuring out, okay, how much down Am I from the maximum? If, after the four trade, I'm at 100, then I'm $3 down from my peak.

Speaker 1  1:17:50  
On my sixth trade I have. Now I'm up. So my current drawdown is zero, right? So I'm figuring out. I'm calculating my current drawdown at 100. My current drawdown is four, because I was at 104 and then I went back 200 so I'm always calculating this formula, current equity minus maximum of equity till that point gives you your current drawdown. And then you can final drawdown is the minimum of the current drawdowns. Make sense. Make sense? Yes or no.

Speaker 1  1:18:36  
In drawdown period, can we use the same system if it is profitable, or shall we change the strategy? No, if your strategy, if you're, if you are comfortable with your strategy, it's fine. I mean, you know, I didn't have a problem. I mean, so, you know, I recently, not recently, around eight months back, I took a strategy life, and around June or July, it had a huge drawdown. And I was fine, you know, I had tested it for three, four years. I was fine with it, right? I didn't mind drawdown. I didn't change the strategy. Kept on trading. I was comfortable with it. And now again, it's, it's in the green, right? So it's it's great drawdown calculation is nothing but maximum equity till that point. So from B 12 till that point, the maximum equity, right? Maximum equity till that point, and then current equity minus the maximum till that point. So this is current drawdown. And then you take the minimum of that,

Speaker 1  1:19:51  
you calculate the drawdown from the maximum global maximum till that point. So here, if I'm. Calculating the drawdown. I don't take the peak, so I'm not forward looking, even in my historical back testing, I don't look forward. So the drawdown is your maximum peak from historical your your maximum trough from a historical peak. Right? Make sense. Okay,

Speaker 1  1:20:36  
so this is your drawdown, and a duration is for how long were you in in the red after your global peak, how long were you in the red? Drawdown and numbers doesn't make sense. 5 million drawdown doesn't make much sense, better understood in percentage, no. Drawdowns are important. Drawdowns are important, and tell you why. If you lose 10% of your equity, you started at 100, now you are at 90. You need 11% from 90, you need 11.1% returns to go back to 100. If you've lost 50% of your capital from 100, you are at 50. Now at 50, you would need 100% of returns right to from 50 to reach back to 100, you need 100% returns. If you have lost 90% of your capital, you need 900% returns to go back right so draw downs quickly wipe out your money when you are raising money. This is what I've observed. If you go to an investor who's not very sophisticated, he would ask you two things and two things only, profit and drawdown. They don't care about your hit ratios, your average profit per trade, your sharp ratios. I will discuss sharp ratio also, they don't care about it. They care about is the profit and the drawdown. But that depends upon how sophisticated players, how sophisticated is the investor? And I've met both sorts of I've met people who ask me the sharp ratios, the the average profit per trade, you know, the holding period and whatnot. But I've also met investors who only asked me two things, what is the profit? What is the drawdown? All right, okay,

Speaker 1  1:22:37  
so how do we do it in our system here.

Speaker 1  1:22:56  
So we calculate the equity, right? This is the equity. So as soon so say, we start with 100, right? We started with 100, and then, you know, we are so as soon as we get a return, we are increasing or decreasing our equity. So if we lost 1.72 our equity decreases, and then we lost again. So again decreases. We lost 6% so from 96 we go to 90, and then so on, and then one, 4.5 so this is our equity curve, right. And here I'm calculating the maximum equity curve right, exactly like I was doing here, calculating the maximum equity, right, the maximum till that point, and then I'm calculating the drawdown from the maximum. So this is the maximum till this point. So here I'm calculating the drawdown from the maximum right. And then finally, the max of this drawdown is, it clear?

Speaker 1  1:24:18  
Makes sense. So this is your drawdown. So calculate your maximum equity curve and your difference from the current difference from the maximum equity All right, and then take the max of it, my thumb rule for drawdown. Good question. Anything below 5% is cold, no problem whatsoever. Around 10 to 15% is all right, is all right. Beyond 25% It becomes tough. Investors around 50, around 20, 25% investors become jittery. Thumb rule is usually, you know, I've met investors who tell me nothing if your total returns in a year are safe, you know, 20% 30% and your your drawdown is around, you know, half or 1/3 of it. At half, they are still jittery. At 1/3 they are comfortable. So your total returns in a year and your total drawdown should should be less than you know, the total returns upon your total drawdown should be more than two, 2.5 so that's my thumb rule, right? Or in percentage above 25% it becomes difficult.

Speaker 1  1:25:56  
Okay? Now comes the so people were saying, you know, variability of returns, sharp ratio and all. What is your distribution of returns? Right? What is sharp ratio? If there is a single factor that you have to understand, or that you have to evaluate your strategy against, it is the sharp ratio. Right? What is sharp? As you see, it's the engineers, financial engineer, they're very, you know, simple people, and I like these ratios. Right in chemical engineering, we have a lot of dimensionless numbers, Reynolds number, peclet number, and they're all great ways to understand what's happening. So sharp ratio is exactly like a, you know, like a dimensionless number, where you're trying to understand what is your, you know your returns with respect to your risk. So see, at the end of the day, you have to increase your returns and you have to decrease your risk. What is risk? Risk is the uncertainty in your returns. What is uncertainty in your return, standard deviation of your returns, right? So what do financial engineers What did financial engineers do? They divided returns by the standard deviation? So sharp ratio is nothing but your risk divided by your standard deviation. Sorry, sharp ratio. I'm really sorry. Sharp ratio is your returns divided by the standard deviation of your returns. And when you are calculating the returns, you are subtracting the risk free return. Right risk free return is, you know your your returns on your fixed deposit treasury bills, you know stuff like that. So in India, risk free rate would be around five to 6% in the US, it would be around two to 3% you know, depending upon your treasury rate bills or your fixed deposit rates. So how do you calculate your sharp ratio? Now, there are a couple of things that are important that I need to discuss here. So just pay attention for

Speaker 1  1:28:27  
five minutes you have this strategy. Now what you do is you need to calculate for sharp the best way is to calculate the daily returns, right? Even if you So, if you have an intraday strategy, calculating the returns is pretty simple, right? Whatever return you had on that day divided by the total capital that you had invested in that strategy. So for intraday strategy where you're not carrying positions, this is your it's very simple, but the returns each day. To calculate returns each day is a simple process, but for strategies where you are holding position right for multiple days, weeks, months, how do you calculate the daily return? You just calculate the daily return on mark to market basis. So you had say you had bought this stock at 1421, at 1421, return, and your position was bought. So your return is nothing but close price, minus today's close price, minus your trading price divided by your trading price. And for each day you do that right. For each day, you are calculating the returns based on if you have a bot position. You are calculating your you. Return for that day. So yesterday, the close was 1432 today, it is 1435 so it would be around three divided by 1432 so for and if you if your position is a sold, then obviously, you know it would be today's yesterday's price minus today's price divided by yesterday's price. So daily returns would be based on yesterday's close and today's close based on your position, make sense? So this is your return of each day, right? Guys? Is N column clear. For intraday strategies, you can easily calculate the return of a strategy for one day, and then for inter day strategies, you have to calculate the daily returns based on mark to market returns. Make sense? Yes or no? Make sense? No, today's close minus yesterday's close divided by yesterday's close, not the trading price. I'm sorry. It's so each day, you are calculating the returns each day, as if you built the position on yesterday's close and you squared it off on today's close, make sense. So your return would be, if you have a bought position, your return would be today's close price minus yesterday's close price divided by yesterday's close price. Make sense, yes or no, so

Speaker 1  1:31:48  
I have not completed sharp ratio, so right now, all I'm asking you is to calculate the returns of your strategy for each day. Does that make sense? Calculating the returns for each day. Okay? People are asking me for intraday, okay, so for say you had $10,000 to begin right invested in your strategy. So

Speaker 1  1:32:27  
returns each day, right? So day one and then I'll do it till 10 days. So say your returns are 1% or 0.2% and then so for each day, I'm just calculating the return 0.1% maybe minus 0.05% minus 0.25% so these are, I'm just randomly putting numbers here, right 4%

Unknown Speaker  1:33:11  
or I'll just do right. So only for five days. Does this make sense? So if you so basically, you

Speaker 1  1:33:47  
so on the first day you made $20 then your returns are point 2% second day you made $10 third day you lost five then $25 then $45 so these would be your returns for intraday yes or no. Does that make sense? Is this table clear? Yes or no. This is the money that you invested. This is your profitability each day. Then I'm calculating the daily returns. Does this make sense? Yes or no, yeah. Now, what I'm saying is, this is for intraday. This is for intraday now, if, now,

Speaker 1  1:34:37  
now, if you are carrying your position, and you have to calculate return of one day, right? How would you do it if I started with 100 So, day one? So this is inter day right? Day one I started with. I bought it at 100 Right,

Speaker 1  1:35:11  
right, and then day two, this is the closing price. It closed at 102 what is my return? My returns are 2% right? Does this make sense? Yes or no. Does this make sense? And then on day three, it went back to say 103 it go on. It went up again. So now this is 103 minus 102 divided by 102 right? Make sense? So I can calculate my returns for each day so on, depending upon my position, if I don't have a position, then my return would be zero. That's fine for no position, say I sold it here

Unknown Speaker  1:36:12  
right on day four, I sold it at 102 and two,

Speaker 1  1:36:25  
my return here becomes negative, and then if I don't have a position at zero makes sense, yes or no, yeah, and say I did not enter a position. So then I'll take zero. So open. So daily returns right on close, yesterday is close and today's close. And then I can take the average of this, so average of my daily returns And the standard deviation of my daily returns make sense

Speaker 1  1:37:20  
uh. So, you know, people are saying that, you know, this is not adding up. This is giving you 2.01% instead of instead of 2% it's all right, because here I am assuming. What I'm assuming is that each day I'm investing the same amount of money. Had I done log returns, then it would have added up. You can do that. It's all right. This will give you underestimated, sharp ratio. This method, if you take simple returns, as I said, will give you underestimated. And I'm always I prefer under estimation and overestimation, right? So, and I'm telling you the assumption here, I'm assuming, every day I'm using the same amount of capital in log returns, that assumption goes away. All right, we

Speaker 1  1:38:18  
are taking simple returns because I want to underestimate my sharp ratios and my returns, alright? If you can take log returns, don't worry about it. Alright. So then once you have the daily returns you have you you can take the daily average returns and the standard deviation of daily returns, right? Daily average returns, daily standard deviation. If you divide these two numbers, average divided by standard deviation, you get the daily sharp ratio. Make sense? You get the daily sharp ratio. Now sharp ratio is usually, you know, industry standard is annualized and not daily. For annualized sharp ratio, what you have to do is you have to calculate this daily average. You have to convert this daily average return and daily standard deviation for 252, days. So what you do is, returns are additive. Remember, returns are additive. So if my daily average return is this, I can simply multiply it by 252, for annualized return, unfortunately, standard deviation is not to convert standard deviation into one year. I need to multiply it by square root of time, right my fourth lecture. So standard deviation of one day is this? Standard deviation of one year would be multiplied by square root of. 252, so your annualized sharp ratio is daily sharp ratio multiplied by 252, divided by square root of 252, or you can actually just multiply it by the square root of 252,

Speaker 1  1:40:19  
thumb rule for sharp anything above three is pure gold. Pure gold. Don't even think about it straight away. Executed below 1.5 I'm very iffy. I don't invest around two. 2.5 is the sweet spot. Around two i The strategies minimum, sharp ratio that I invested would be around 1.92 that's a sweet spot. And then 1.9 sharp ratio I invest low capital, right? Hedge funds would can run on 1.4 1.5 but, you know, I don't feel comfortable. I

Speaker 1  1:41:03  
What should we take? Normal returns, or log returns? I told you I take simple return because that is under estimation. Log returns will give you the right number you can take log rate. That's, don't worry about it, do it. I My personal preference is for return for modeling, and all I take log returns for P and L calculation, I take simple returns, but again, I I'm assuring you you can take log returns and you won't go wrong. All right, why the annualized return is equal to the Analyze shop, or because the analyzed this would be so, no, no, this is the, this is the, this is the sharp ratio, right. Analyze. Sharp ratio is point five, you know, let me just delete this. So this, that that this, this was the annualized, this is the short ratio, right, alright. So this is the daily average and daily standard division. Alright, guys, I need to give you a break right now and then. When I come back, I'll just discuss distribution of returns. So it's a five minute break. I will reconvene at 550 so

Unknown Speaker  1:42:26  
I assumed,

Unknown Speaker  1:42:38  
a way to start evaluation

Unknown Speaker  1:42:50  
All right, shall we reconvene Guys? You can hear me, so is sharp, ratio, clear.

Speaker 1  1:43:05  
Okay, people are asking me, looks like sharp ratio is based on daily return, if the position is not closed Absolutely. So you know it is telling you, on a daily basis, what is the sort of fluctuation that you can see in your returns, right? That's what it's telling you. All right, okay, let me move ahead, if this is clear now, distribution of profit and losses, so this would be my for evaluation of strategies. This would be my last metric, and it's not a metric, it's a I'll just tell you that. You know you should always build a distributions, and you so people were asking me nothing, how can we, if there's a thumb rule for stop losses in a strategy? So I'll just give you a way to start, you know, analyzing your where you can put your stop losses losses, right? So what I did here was I dollars 79 so we had 79 loss making trades, right? If you remember,

Speaker 1  1:44:36  
we had 79 negative trades. So I just brought all those trades here, all lost trades, and this, this is 79 so I'm starting from b2 till B 80. So 79 trades, right? Count is 79 and I am putting them in bins, right? How many trades are. Between minus 10 and minus nine. So there's no trade. How many trades are between minus nine and minus eight? Between minus eight and minus seven to three, between a minus six and minus five, four and so on. So this is the distribution, right? So this this total is 79 so between minus eight and minus seven, there are three, between minus six and minus three six. So this is the frequency. Everybody clear till column H. And then, so I have distributed my losses in these eight buckets, right? And then for each bucket, I'm calculating the total loss. So there are three trades in this bucket, and I'm summing if, summing if my trades are in this bin, right? So less than minus seven and greater than minus eight. So between minus eight and minus seven, I have three negative trades, total losses, minus 23 and so on and so on, right? So obviously the sum would be equal to the sum of the all loss making trades. So for each bin, I'm calculating the number of trades in that bin and the total loss in that bucket. Right? Everybody's clear till column I,

Speaker 1  1:46:34  
yes or no. Guys any questions till column i and then for each bin, what I'm doing is I am calculating the cumulative loss till that bucket. So till bucket one, minus 23 till bucket 238, plus 23 till bucket 323, plus 38 plus 21 so minus 82% and then plus 31 213 and so on. And then final bucket, obviously, I the cumulative loss becomes equal to the sum of the losses. So this is the cumulative loss till each bucket. And then I'll calculate the percentage out of two 30% only 10% loss occurs in my first bucket till second bucket, 26% till 36 bucket, till third bucket, 36% till fourth bucket, 50% and I will put a loss in the In this bucket. So what I want to say around 50% and this is just a sort of a thumb rule, or a starting point for your stop loss. You see, this is the distribution in your fourth bucket. Till your fourth bucket, you have your 50% of losses, and then you can put your stop loss at around mid of this fourth market, so around minus 4.5% you can so you are cutting off these losses till this particular point again. This is just a starting point that you can have for your stop losses, and this is your returns. And you can plot the returns distribution. This is how your distribution can look like. Make sense? Okay, I have two things now, trailing stop loss. So one is, you know, you put a static stop loss. You loss. And other thing is, you put a trailing stop loss. So what is the difference in a static stop loss? If you bought your stock, say at 100, and you have a stop loss at 5% so you bought it at 100, it goes up 202 then at 103 then it falls to 95% you exit at minus 5% right? So this is you hit your stop loss at 95 because your stop loss was 5% if you're keeping it dynamic, if you're keeping at a dynamic stop loss. So you bought it at 100. You went to 102 so your stop loss is 5% of your maximum peak. So you exit at 9700 and if you if your stock goes to 103 your stop loss becomes at 98 so then you exit at 98 so, you know, instead of minus five, you exited at minus two, because it goes up. So you you don't want to lose five. You know, here you are losing 5% from your trading price. Here you are losing 5% from the peak. So sometimes trailing stop loss helps you, and then again, you'll have to test this out. You can have a dynamic stop loss multiple of ATR also Absolutely. One last thing that I wanted to discuss in this half of the lecture, leverage. What is leverage. It's a simple concept. You know, it's a it's a dangerous thing, but let me just make you understand this. Say you had $100 with you. Your returns are profitable. You trade with $100 you make 20% your final wealth becomes 120 What if you borrowed 200% I'd say no cost or very negligible cost. And you know, some brokers do provide you with leverage at very minimal cost. So now you add 100. You borrow 100. So now your equity becomes 200 right, 100 plus the leveraged amount. So 100 plus 100 200 returns are 20% so you make 240 right. You make you you make $40 on the 220% returns. You give back your $100 and you know your final wealth is 140 so from 100, you made $40 so your actual returns becomes two times the returns per trade, because you had a leverage of two. So you started with 100, you borrowed 100, so the total equity becomes 200 so you are at a leverage of two. If you borrow 200 you are at a leverage of three, your actual returns will be 60% unfortunately, it leverage is a dangerous thing, because as it increases returns on the plus side, it would similarly multiply your losses. If you are at a leverage of two and you lose 20% your actual returns become minus 40% so leverage is a dangerous thing, right? It just multiplies your profits and your losses, if you are very certain about so I don't borrow money at debt until, as my strategy sharp is two digits, that is when I start borrowing money. Otherwise, I play it fund wise, all right, it's a double edged sword. Okay, so much for this. Again, you have to subtract brokerages, your exchange costs, your taxes. Slippage is, you know, theoretically you might say that, you know, I would get this trade at 100. But when you put it live in the market, you got a trade at 100.05 so usually four to five bips basis points for every $100 traded. I usually take around four to five bits for slippage for my medium frequency strategies, so you have to include those. And then

Speaker 1  1:53:16  
this is this, and always try to see how your equity curve looks like. Further research. If your strategy is not doing well, try to add more factors to it. So RSI, ATR, pollankar, band or whatnot. I've discussed trailing stop loss as money management techniques. I've discussed stop loss based on return distribution. I've discussed Kelly position sizing. Or you can have position based on volatility. VIX is an index. If VIX is high and your strategy is dependent, so always try to find out the relationship between the returns of your strategy and, say, volatility in the market. If it is a positive correlation, great. If it is a negative correlation, then you can sort of size back according if the volatility is high in the market, your size goes down. The volatility is low your site, your size goes up. There is something called martingale and anti martingale. Martingale is, you know, Martingale strategy is, you increase your bet size as your account falls. So if you are losing money, increase, because then people think, you know, if I'm losing money, then my chances of making money in the next bet or trade improves. Anti martingale is the opposite. You increase your bet size as your account grows, nothing. They don't work. As simple as that, I've never used them. And, you know, they assume dependency of trades with each other. I, you know, none of my strategies have ever seen this, so I don't use them, and I suggest this same All right, one or two minutes. For any question. And then I'll move on to to market parameters. Brokers leverage is for mostly it's for intraday correct. So, yeah, you can borrow money with debt if you have intraday strategies with good shots. If strategy is not showing results, how to find out if the fix will come and stop management or entry rule, oh, this is again. I mean, you know, see, for any strategy, you need to understand why it is working. Once you understand why it is working, then you know if it has stopped working. You know why. So you know, one of my strategies stopped working. And you know, I'll discuss that strategy here also. So you know, I mean, the reason could be anything regulatory changes or whatever, but you should know why it was making money. And then you know what changed. So if that particular thing changes, then you know, it will stop making money, right? So it's to find a fix. You should know what was helping you out. All right, okay, volatility based position sizing is, so you know, sometimes what happens is vix volatility index is, you know, you can always regress your returns with each day's each day return with each day Wix, and see if, if you know if your returns are increasing with increasing Wix, then you know if VIX is high. You increase your position size. If your returns are decreasing with increasing Wix, then you know when Wix is high, you need to decrease your position. That's what I'm saying.

Speaker 1  1:56:55  
All right, there's a question on how to find which metric or parameter is helping the strategy. Oh, you have to understand the strategy, right? Why is it making money? So in moving averages, is moving averages making money? It's the momentum factor, right? You have to understand the crux. All right. There are questions about sharp ratios and leverage. You know, I need to move on right now. I'll take them either offline or at the end of the lecture, but right now I need to move on to the market parameters. Guy. What I'll do with I'll discuss four parameters here, open, interest, cost of carry, delivery volume and volume traded. I will use these three wise cost of carry delivery volume to build a factor model to determine price movements, right to predict price movement. So I'll show you how you can build factor models, but in the next 1520 minutes, I will discuss what is open interest, what is cost of carry and what is delivery volume. All right, any if you have any questions, I'll now, you know, I'll only take questions related to these, this thing or the rest of the question. I'll take them offline. Okay, open interest and cost of carry is bit you know, it depends upon the derivatives market. So let me just tell you what a derivative market is, and then I'll explain what is open interest and what is cost of carry. So everybody understands what a stock is. Right? For a lot of stocks, there are future contracts. So for example,

Speaker 1  1:59:05  
a State Bank of India, right? This is the stock, right. So, this is the stock, right? It's trading, and this is a derivative. Derivative is a future, right? So, stock futures, right? So, November future, so State Bank of India, stock future, November, expiry, and this is the trade price. A future is nothing. But so what is future? Future contract is the expected value of the underlying at the date of expiry. So each future will have an expiry date. It will have an underlying state bank of India, Punjab National Bank, nifty, the index bank. Nifty. Okay, so there are different future contracts for different underlying and they'll have expiry dates, right? So the expiry date for November future is 25th November, right? So say, you know, for say, first may stock is trading at 100. Say that future of the stock, which is expiring on 29th may, might be trading at $102 right? So basically this means is that people are saying the market is expecting that on 29th May, the stock would be around 102 the theoretical price. How do you calculate the theoretical price of the future? It is simply future into stock price multiplied by e power rt is continuous compounding. R is the rate of interest for that time period from first may to say, 29th May, and time left to expiry Right. Right. So this is a future contract that is, is everybody? Does everybody understand what a future contract is? So for stocks, you can have futures with an expiry date. What does it tell you? It tells you the expected stock price on the expiry date. Make sense? So again, guys, I'm not discussing options here, so I'll just discuss futures, right? You'll have an options class, you'll have a derivatives class, you'll have a series of derivatives. But here I just because I wanted to explain open interest and cost of carry. That's why I just introduced a future contract. You'll have extensive classes on these. All right, why e power rt? Because you are assuming continuous compounding. All right, so what is cost of carry? Cost of carry is the difference between the future price and the stock price. COC cost of carry is simply the difference between the spot price and the future price. So the cost of carry, if your spot price cash is at 100, future price is at 102 your cost of carry is $2 here, you know the future price was 943, your equity price is 937, so the cost of carry is around six rupees for almost a month. Make sense? So derivative, the stock future, right? And you have futures for and this is for December, right? So this is December expiry future. So different. You can have different expiry dates, so January also, right? So this is January, all right, make sense?

Speaker 1  2:03:24  
So cost of carry is the difference between the future and the spot price. So we are clear with cost of carry now. What is out? What is Oi, open interest, what is guys, please pay attention here. I'll take five minutes to make you understand what open interest is. Open Interest is the number of outstanding contracts in that derivative so for future, it is only with derivative contract. Open Interest is for derivative contracts, all right,

Speaker 1  2:04:11  
so you know and you're so what is now? You have to understand what the contract is. So say, person A buys a future contract on first may for $102 B sells. Now, if you are buying a future contract, somebody has to sell, right? Obviously, somebody has to sell. That is why, that is how you will be able to buy. So say a buys, B cells. This means that there is one obligation between A and b1, contract. Agreement is between a and b. What is the agreement? So if the stock ends at 110 on the day of expiry, then. A is account will get credited by $8 because he bought it at 102 the future ended at 110 and B would lose $8 so it's a zero sum game. Obviously, if A and B are in the contract agreement, then obviously the money that a wins B would lose. So it's a derivatives are always zero sum games, right? Is this clear? Is this clear? So the so in a derivative say, you know that now I'll explain what an so open interest is the number of outstanding agreements between market participants. For example, say there are only three players in the market, right? I'll assume it's a Monday, and obviously there are millions of players in the market. But let us to simplify things. Let us assume there are only three players in the market, Rahul, Dhiraj and Neeraj, right? These are the names of the three players in the market. Say, Rahul buys five Lots. Lots is simply, you know, like futures or derivative contracts come in a lot. So one lot will have say 100 shares or 200 shares or 1000 shares. So they come in sort of baskets, right? So five lots to say one lot has here, I'll just assume it has one share. So Rahul buys five shares from Neeraj, and Dheeraj buys four lots from Neeraj. So in total, Rahul and Neeraj have five agreements, and Dheeraj and Neeraj have four agreements, right? So there are in total, nine buy agreements and nine sell agreements between these three players. So the open interest is nine, right? So buy, all the buys and all the cells would be equal. So number of buys are nine, number of cells are nine, and that these are the number of open agreements. Does this make sense? Yes or no. So this is the open interest, the number of outstanding agreements between the players. Guys is this clear? Yes or no. Make sense. Guys makes sense. Yes or no. All right, now say on Tuesday near Neeraj buys three shares, three lots from a new entrance, Subhash. So Subhash is a new entrant, and he buys three lots right now. How many agreements are there? Rahul and hiraj have five and four buys. Subhash closed his three agreements, right? He had nine sold. So he closed his agreement, transferred them to Subhash. So Neeraj in total has six. Subhash in total now has three. So obviously buy is equal to sell, so open interest is still nine, although the volume now there's a difference right. Volume traded on Tuesday will be three shares because Neeraj bought three. Subhash sold three, so volume traded is three, but open interest is still nine, because the open buy contracts are five plus four and total sell contracts, sell agreements is obviously nine, because buys have to be equal to sales, so six from Neeraj and Subhash. Why did not? Why didn't the open interest increase? Because neither just transferred his three agreements to Subhash. Is this clear? Yes or No, guys yes or no.

Speaker 1  2:09:19  
Everybody is clear. You just have to count the number of agreements. So five bought from Rahul. Dheeraj has four bought. Neeraj has in total, six sold, and Subhash has three sold. So five plus four is nine. Why not 12 instead of nine? Oh, because nine minus three is Do you understand this column? Do you understand the contracts column? So five plus four is nine and six plus three is nine. Does anybody who did not understand the it's the contracts column that is important. Green is by red is. Sell people who are not clear about this boy, okay? If Neeraj on Monday, Neeraj has nine sold. If Neeraj buys three and Subhash sells three, how many? What is the open position of Neeraj? If Neeraj buys back three and Subhash sells three, what is the open position of Neeraj? Guys, what is the open position of Neeraj? If Neeraj here buys three, everybody understand that it's six, right? So that's what I'm saying, it's six here. These contracts are six, right, nine, minus three, six. What is the open position of Subhash? Three sold. So every sold open position is in red, every bought open position is in green. So the number of open positions buy, open positions are nine. Open sold, open positions are nine. Make sense. Subhas is okay, so Okay. The confusion is that you know Neeraj, so you so in a in a market, you can transfer your open positions to anybody who's who's ready to buy or sell with you, right? If I've made an agreement with if Neeraj had made an agreement with Rahul or Dhiraj, the market doesn't care if, if I buy, if I buy a stock in the morning from person A and I sell it to Person C, would the exchange say, No, you cannot sell the stock to Person C, because, you know, you bought it from person A. It doesn't matter, right? The market doesn't care. All that market cares is, what is your open position in the market, right? So if I bought three lots and I sold three lots, my position is zero. So the market would say, okay, Nathan's position is zero, irrespective that he bought from a and then sold it to C. Now the market will see a has three positions and C has three positions, bought and sold. Does that make sense? No.

Speaker 1  2:12:27  
Okay, now one more, one more example, say on Wednesday, another player, Dion, comes into picture. Now, what does she do? She buys seven lots, two from Rahul, three from diraj, and two from Subhash. So Rahul closed two of his positions. So his net position is three, bought. So green Dirac is net position is one because he had bought four, sold three. So his net bought position is one. Neeraj didn't trade so it's six. Subhash sold two more. Earlier he had three. He sold two more. So his net position is five, and Dion's net position is seven. So total open bot position are three plus one, four plus 711, and total cell positions in the market are also 11. So the open interest is 11. Claire, yes or no, net, net buy is equal to the total buy is equal to total cell is equal to the, you know, the open interest, the net position. So total buy, open contracts are three plus one plus 711, total sell the six plus 511 the net has to be zero, right. Total buy is equal to the total sales, and that is the open position, open interest would be the total buys or total sales. Make sense? Any questions. Open Interest does not tell you whether the position is long or short. I mean, so if one buys, the other person has to sell, right? So the open interest would be 111, by one cell, open interest, one, open agreement. So one lot, open position, open right. One, one lot is the open position or the open interest, makes sense. It would add up to zero, right? Obviously, it would add up to zero. So the the net the total buys have to be equal to the total sales, right? How can you buy if nobody is selling? So number of buys has to be equal to number of cells. Why did the open interest increase here? Oh, because there was a new entrant, right? And so there were new agreements. So from nine there were two more agreements that were formed. So essentially Subha so Rahul and Dhiraj closed, transferred their positions to Dion, but Subhash had three more lots sold. So that is why it goes from nine to 11. But the the point is that, you know, just so the when the market is calculating the open the open interest, it is calculating the number of net buy positions. So net buyers are total net buys. So Rahul is three, Dhiraj is one, Dion is seven, so net total net buys are 11, and total net sales are 11. Makes sense.

Speaker 1  2:15:53  
Yeah. So if somebody had bought five and then sold to the net is three, contracts would always be the difference of Yeah, contracts are the open position of that person, and green would be the bias, and red would be the cells. So you add up the open position of each person, bias together and then sells together. Does that make sense?

Speaker 1  2:16:30  
Guys? Does that make sense? Any number of content? So people are saying, theoretically, any number of contracts can be created, irrespective of the outstanding sheds. Absolutely. Theoretically, you can do it, but the governing authorities, you know, Ban trading if the open interest goes beyond a limit. So then, you know, they ban trading. But theoretically, yes, it can. You can create any number of contracts. Is it not good to buy? When why less than 500 I haven't heard this rule. So, I mean, we can discuss this later, but I haven't heard that rule. All right, okay, okay. So I've discussed open interest. I've discussed cost of carry. I've also discussed volume traded is the number of buys and sells in the market, right? So, for example, if trader a buys 100 stocks from Trader B at 10am volume traded at 10am would be 100. If trader a sells, that was 100 stocks to say trader B or Trader C. Then again, the volume traded at three o'clock is 100. So the total volume traded would be 200 for the day. And here the open interest would be zero, right? If these are futures, right? So the total volume is, again, the the number of trades, right? The quantity traded. Now there's something called delivery volume. Delivery volume, is the percentage of stocks that were bought and that were delivered into the account of the traders. So let me just give you an example. Let me just give you an example. So say trader a buys 100 stocks in the morning and sells 100 stocks in the afternoon. This implies that his trading account will not get any stock, right? This is he's an intraday trader, bought 100, sold 100, end of story, right? So

Speaker 1  2:19:03  
no account, no stocks will be credited or debited from his account. However, say, Trader B buys 50 stocks in the morning and keeps them till end of day. This employs 50 stocks of the stocks estate Bank of India will get credited in his account. Now this is called as taking delivery. So he took delivery, he bought the stocks, and he kept him in his account. So the delivery volume would be 50. Here the delivery volume is zero. Trades were 100 plus 100, 200 but the delivery was zero. In this case, the delivery was 5050, so total volume is 200 plus 5250, and percentage of delivery volume is 50 divided by 250 so. 20% right? So percentage of delivery is out of the total volume that got traded in that stock. How many stocks actually ended up in people's accounts? Make sense? That is delivery volume. Guys, any questions on the concept of open interest, cost of carry, delivery, volume and volume traded. Any in the concept? I'll tell you the implications later. But any question on the understanding of the concept, i If not, then I'll move forward. Okay, in the next five or 10 minutes, what I'll do is, I'll just quickly tell you these two by two matrices, right to better to make you better understand, you know, markets like so you might be hearing, you know, in news, or there was fresh shorting, short covering, profit taking, right? So you, you might be hearing these terms. What do these terms mean, right? I'll just spend some time to explain you what what these terms mean. You

Speaker 1  2:21:26  
delivery volume is based on the stocks that were total number of stocks that are credited to people's accounts divided by the total volume that was traded, stocks traded in a day, in a day. Right? Okay. So what I do is, if I plot the open interest and the price as two by two, right, so open interest on the x axis and future price on the Y axis. So let us look at segment one right fresh long build up. If the open interest is increasing, that means people are, you know, creating more and more contracts, and the price of the future is going up. That means people are becoming more and more aggressive on buying right? That is why the price will go up if the demand is high and you are creating new, new agreements. That is called Fresh, long build up. Long because you are buying fresh, because open interest is increasing. So fresh long build up. However, if the fourth and now I'm discussing fourth segment, if the open interest is increasing, but the price is going down. That is called Fresh, shorting fresh, because open interest is increasing, people are selling more aggressively. Shorting is selling right. The price is going down. They are the supply side is high. They want to get out of their position. They they don't want to get out. They want to create new positions by selling these two segments, quadrants clear.

Unknown Speaker  2:23:26  
These two segments would be clear, right? Guys, any questions on segment one and quadrant one and four, fresh, long build up and fresh shorting any questions. Okay, now third quartet profit taking from now.

Speaker 1  2:23:44  
If the open interest is decreasing and the price is decreasing, that means people are now selling and they're closing their position. So open interest is going down, that means they're closing their positions and the price is going down. Now, you know they are selling, but they are not creating fresh position. Their open interest is going down and the price is going down, that means they are that they had bought before. Now they are selling, so profit booking and similarly quadrant true. If the open interest is going down and the price is increasing, that means they're closing open interest is going down, that means they're closing position. How are they closing position? By buying because the price is going up. That means they're covering their shots. So price with open interest is telling you, what are people doing? See if the price is going up, then you have to look at the open interest if they're covering if open interest is decreasing, that means shots are being covered. If open interest is increasing, that means there is interest in this stock. Stock for long term, it might go up, right? Does that make sense?

Speaker 1  2:25:11  
Okay? One, I'm not saying this is not a price prediction model. I'll build that later. This is just telling you what is happening in the market. I'm not predicting the price right now. All I'm saying is, if you see price going up and open interest increase increasing, you know people are building position fresh positions make sense. Yes or No, I build a factor model to predict right now I'm understanding what is happening. So for example, if you know this blue line is price, OI is this red. So between six March, 16 and 17, Oi went up. Price went up. Fresh, long build up between 20 and 22 why? Goes up, price goes down. Fresh, fresh shorting. So you're just analyzing. You're not predicting right now, prediction is different. So you can analyze, okay, you

Speaker 1  2:26:25  
now one more Decision Matrix. You You might be, you know, you might be hearing there is strong buying or selling in the cash segment topping out. What does that mean? So if I draw a two by two of cost of carry and price here, earlier, the price was that of future price here, the price is cash stocks, right? Okay,

Speaker 1  2:26:59  
let us look at the first quadrant, if the cost of carry is increasing, that means the future price, the difference between the future and the stock, is increasing and the stock price is also moving. That means people are buying the futures as well as the stock. How do we conclude this? Because price is increasing. So obviously people are buying stock. Cost of carry is increasing. The difference between the future price and the stock price is also increasing, right? So that means there is buying both in future segment and in cash segment. So first quadrant is strong. Buying make sense?

Speaker 1  2:27:45  
If fourth quadrant, if cost of carry is increasing but price is decreasing, that means people are ready to sell this stock in cash segment, right? They they are doubtful of this talk in short term, so they are not touching the futures, right? They are not selling the futures and but because stock is decreasing, if they were selling the future, then the cost of carry would have remained the same. But cost of carry is increasing and the price is decreasing. Price decreasing means stock is definitely going down, but the cost of carry is increasing so they are not touching the future segment as much as they're selling in the cash segment. Guys quadrant one and four clear, yes or no. Again, this is just analysis, no prediction so far. I'll build a model to predict clear and then third quadrant, cost of carry is also decreasing. Price is also decreasing. So people are extremely bearish on this stock, right? They are decreasing the price. They are selling the stock, and they are selling the future also, and that is why they are selling the future more so people are selling the stock. That means they are not very you know, they are bearish in the short term, and they are selling the futures even more. They are bearish on the future also, and that is why the difference between the stock and the future is decreasing, right? And then the second quadrant is topping out, opposite of selling in cash segment, topping out, my price is increasing. So people are buying the stock, but they're not buying the futures, right? So maybe there's a dividend coming in. So people are buying the stocks, but they're not buying the future, right? They're hopeful of a good dividend. So they are hopeful in the short term, but not in the long term. If they were hopeful in the long term, then they would have bought the futures also, and you would have been in the first quarter. Uh, so topping out is only buying in the cash segment future segment remains stable. Make sense?

Speaker 1  2:30:15  
How would this decision matrix differ when analyzing index futures or individual stock futures. Oh, for index futures, you have to, you have to determine what is the spot of the future of the index. If you, if you can do the exact same analysis for the spot price of the index and and the future of the index, right, the analysis remains the same. Now what I'll do is, so I've discussed now I will take three factors, and then I'll create a weighted system or a factor model. Now, guys, please pay attention for the next 10 minutes, I'll build my factor model, and then once, so, you know, once I've built my factor model, and I think we'll have, like, 10 minutes. So I'll use 10 minutes to discuss this factor model, and then the last 10 minutes, I'll just discuss the strategy that used to work but it doesn't anymore, right? Make sense? Or, if you want, I can, I can skip that part. But in all these years, people are very interested in those strategies that that didn't, that used to work but does not anymore. I'll discuss that actually. It's, it's, it's pretty interesting, and I always have fun discussing that. So I'll use 10 minutes to discuss the factor model, and the last 10 minutes for that strategy. All right, okay, so the factor model first, what I what you can do is, so say, I've taken three factors change in open interest day on day, change in cost of carry day on day, and change in delivery volume day on day, right? And I'm putting some weights on these factors. Weights are always between zero and one. So three factors, three weights, w1 w2 w3 the sum of the weights is always one, so w3 is one minus w1 minus w2 How do I determine these weights. And what am I trying to do? I am trying to create a signal whether I need to buy or whether I need to sell based on the weighted sum of these factors. So let me just give you an example. See, I have historical days of historical data for each day. So day one change in y is 90% day two change in y is 4% and so on, for cost of carry. Day one change in cost of carry 63 then 70 minus 23 so this is historical data, right? This is pretty simple, and you can calculate it from historical data, delivery volume. How you can do it? There are reports. So every exchange gives you this information about delivery volume. So you gather this from historical reports, and this is the data that you have. Now, what you do is say you take these weights. Ideally, what you will do is you will take the whole combination of, you know, w1, w2 w3 so you will vary weight one, from one person to 99% weight two, from one to 99 and they'll be like numerous combinations, right? Actually, 100 into 100. So you will have 10,000 combinations. And then w3 is just one minus w1 w2 so I'll just discuss one combination, and then I'll take the process. So say in that one, you know 500 500 combination, you have weight on on factor one is 40% two is 50% and the third one is one minus d1, w1, minus w2 right

Speaker 1  2:34:48  
now, what you do is you create a signal. So signal is simply your historical data of these values multiplied by the weights. So for each. I have a signal value. Everybody is clear till column H. Any questions till column H? How to Calculate delivery volume? As I said, there's you know exchanges give the delivery volume through a report. So if you look at their website, there would be a report on delivery. One guys, any questions till, till this point, till column H, everything is clear. Yes or no. I'll tell you how to determine optimum weights. But so for case one, if you know the weights, you can create this signal, right? Yes or no. Guys, yes or no, if you know the weights, you can create this signal, simple, weighted sum product right now, all you have to do is you have to figure out the optimum threshold for of signal for buy and sell, right? So you are changing the weights of every factor from one to 99% right? Let's say one 1% gap. So one person 2% 3% 4% w2 is also one person, 234, 800 so w1 will be between, say w1 is 1% then 100 combinations for w2 between one and 99 or 99 combinations. And then second would be w1 is 2% then again, another 99 combinations, or w2 from one to 99 then w1 is 3% then again, 99 combinations. So you will have actually 99 square combinations, right around 10,000 combinations for three weights. Does that make sense, yes or no. And for each of those combinations, you can calculate the signal. So I'm just taking one such combination, and you can create a signal, right? So essentially, what you will do is, so simulation one is, say you took 1% w1, is 10% w2 is 10% w3 is one minus w1 minus w2 you have this data, and you are creating a signal. So this is simulation one, then simulation two is you are changing. You're keeping w1 the same. You're changing w2 so this is your third second simulation, and you're creating a signal, right? Then third simulation is again, w1 is the same. You're changing w2 so this is simulation three. Is this clear? Guys? Is this clear? Yes or no.

Speaker 1  2:38:05  
So the signal is simply the I'm calling this a signal, but this is simply the sum, the weighted sum of the factors. How much weight Am I giving to these factors? It is a simple sum of weights on this sum on these factors, clear,

Speaker 1  2:38:34  
guys, I'm discussing the factor model. I'm not discussing the strategy that used to work and doesn't anymore, that will come later, right? This is just so, as I said, the first the 10 minutes, I'll just discuss the factor model, and then I'll come to the strategy that used to work is the signal generation clear. Now what I'll do is, so now the for every simulation, I have a signal. Now for each simulation, I will determine a threshold by running another set of simulations. So simulation one A, what is the threshold for buy? Simulation what is the threshold for sell? Simulation 1b I'll have different thresholds for buy and sell, and I'll compare the returns for simulation one A, 1b 1c and so on. Till you know, one point, 1.11 so this is simulation 1.1 this is simulation 1.2 and so 100 such simulations. So for So, this is a, you know, computational heavy hit and trial based factor model. I am determining for each simulation, for each weight. Now I'm determining what is the best threshold. World for buy and sell, and I'm comparing, how am I comparing the best threshold by comparing the returns. So when did I buy? When did I sell? And this, so, you know, you might think that, you know, this would take hours to run. So, you know, my simulations, in fact, right now, one of my simulation is running, you know, it has been running for, like, this whole weekend. So I started it at around five on Friday, and then tomorrow, around 6am it will get ready, right? So this is computational expense, computationally expensive, but it's all right, right? I mean, this is completely data driven, hit and trial method, but from this so now what happens is, you, after all these simulations, you see, what are the best returns, right? And once you have that, so you know, so you have the optimum thresholds and the optimum weights. And then you know that. You know what from weights. You know how important is change in Hawaii, how important is cost of carry, how important is delivery, volume and what with those weights? What are the threshold for buy and sell? Any logic behind weights? No, it's just hit and run right now. It's because I don't have an opinion on whether change in y is more important than cost of carry. That's That's why I want to test all the combinations you can, you can use regression to and I do use that. So you can use multivariate regression, but you will learn that later in ePAT. But this is, this is how you can run a factor model, right without running regression. How are the thresholds decided? Again, the thresholds are decided by running different combinations on each simulation. What is the best threshold for Buy? Best threshold for cell, depending upon which will give you the best returns? Make sense? This is computationally expensive, absolutely hit and trial. Now in Monte Carlo, you give it a model, and you understand, you know, you try to predict the prices based on, based on that model. This is like pure hit and trial method for running these simulations, I won't use Excel. I would use Python, because this is anything that is computer this, this is pretty computationally expensive, so you would require Python, right but again, right now, I just want to, I want you to, okay, if you want to do it in Excel, I mean, you'll have to write a code behind it. So you have to do it through VBA. But again, you know, in this lecture, I wanted you to understand the concept, how you can create this. In fact, I think one of the faculty that Qi at quant industry, they built the code for this. I think they did it in Python. He did it in Python so you can ask your relationship manager if it's still available. So he, he built a code around this, all right.

Speaker 1  2:43:38  
Now I'm not running this model in Excel. This is, as I said, the I think the faculty wrote the code in Python, so you can run your simulations on Python right. I will send you the link of this sheet, guys. Is this clear? Now, there's one more thing that that I need to discuss before I move on to the strategy in this factor model. One thing that we haven't done is, and this is important, it's quite possible that the change in why? What if, you know, cost of carry only changes between minus one and two. What if y changes between minus 4% and say, 80% right? What if delivery volume changes between 10% and 70% right? If this is the case, then cost of carry will never have a lot of weightage on the signal, right? Because the weights are already between zero and one, cost of carry is always keeping between minus one and two, so the signal will not have a lot of value or weight of COC. Does that make sense? Is if the variations are different, and remember, we are using change in y change in cost of carry. If the cost of carry is not changing much, then it will not affect the signal much, right? So to avoid that, we use something called the z score. How do you calculate the z score? So instead of change in why change in cost of carry, we calculate the z score of all these factors each day. What is Z score? So we simply, excuse me, we calculate the mean and the standard deviation of each variable, right? The historical mean and historical standard deviation of each variable, and then for each day to say, day one, why is 14% then we calculate the z score as Z score is nothing, but how many standard deviations is it away from its mean? So if OI is 14% mean was seven and standard deviation was five, so 14 minus seven divided by five, 1.4 for day one delivery volume is 25 mean is 40. So 25 minus 40 divided by 10. So minus 1.5 cost of so it is sort of normalizing it right cost of carry point day one, it is point seven five. So point seven five minus mean is point five divided by standard deviation. So these are the z scores for day one, we calculate the z scores for each day, and then the signal is calculated from the z scores instead of the change, because z score is sort of normalized value instead because the actual change can range between, you know, a very small or a very high range, but once you calculate the mean and the standard deviation, and you calculate how many standard deviations is that variable on that particular day, then you know that would always, you know, be similar for any variable. Make sense,

Speaker 1  2:47:31  
right? So, no, there is no Excel function for Z score. You just have to calculate the means and the standard deviation and then calculate the z score like this. So, you know, this is what I had for you regarding the theory in this lecture. I'll just, you know, quickly go through the, you know, the takeaways from this session, and then I'll move on to the strategy that used to work but doesn't anymore. So, you know, I discussed, in the first part of the lecture, I discussed the metrics that are used to evaluate, and I wanted to spend a lot of time on that, because metrics are important, right? Once you have a strategy, how do you know whether you can make that life so you calculate the the total returns, the normalized hit ratios, the drawdowns, the sharp ratios, right? And with these four metrics, and I've given you my thumb rules for each I'll just repeat them, normalized hit ratio, above 75 is golden. I below 5558 I don't trade them. I trade around 63, to 66 drawdowns. Below 5% is golden. Above 25% investors become jittery. Annualized return upon drawdown should be more than two. Three is great. Sharp ratios above three is golden. Below 1.5 I don't bother two. Around two is the sweet spot, right? 2.5 I definitely run it. Two depends upon how much capital I have. And then, you know, I discussed, so that was the first lecture. I also discussed the first part of the lecture. I also discussed distribution of losses, how to put a stop loss? I discussed trailing stop loss. I discussed leverage. And then in the second part, I told you, what is open interest, what is cost of carry, delivery, volume, total volume traded. I showed you the different What do? What does you know news anchors or financial news mean when they say fresh, short thing, fresh, long, build up, short, covering or topping out. What not? Buying in the cash segment. Strong, buying in the cash segment. And then, you know, I discussed, I took three of these things. Delivery, volume, open, interest cost of carry, and I build a factor model. Showed you how to build a factor model to figure out signals, when to buy, when to sell. And you can run, you know, the simulation, and you can ask your relationship manager if they have the code for this. All right, okay. Now, so this was it for the lecture, the theory part of the lecture. Now, if people are interested, I'll discuss the strategy part that used to work, but doesn't any more. Guys, are you with me? Yes or no. Okay, perfect. I haven't lost you guys, right? Okay, perfect interest. Interested, yeah, okay, okay, the Okay, before coming to the strategy, I need to tell you what people do. And this is very interesting, and this is sort of a pure arbitrage that people try, but they get stuck. Now imagine this, if on first May, the stock is at 100 and the future is at 103

Speaker 1  2:51:15  
say you bought 100 shares of this stock and you sold 100 futures at 103 on expiry is 29th May. What was the theoretical price of future? Stock price into e power rt when there's no time left for expiry, future will be exactly equal to the stock price. So on expiry day, whatever the stock price is, future will end at the stock price. This is like this is how the future is constructed. This is by construction. Any exchange anywhere in the world, on expiry day, future will be equal to the underlying price. So if on say, Today, I have bought 100 shares of stock, sold 100 futures at 103 I have logged in a profit of 300 bucks. How save the stock goes to $90 I will lose 1000 bucks here on the stock, but I will gain 1300 on the future. If it ended at 110 I will gain 1000 here, but I will lose 700 here. If it ended, say, 125 I will gain 2500 here. I lose 2200 here. So this $300 is logged. If I buy 100 shares and sell 100 future, this is a pure arbitrage trade agreed yes or no, right? What was the issue? So on, on expiry, day earlier? What used to happen? So this is for sure that the future will go to the underlying price. But what happened was, earlier on expiry day, your future position used to be settled on cash. So it was cash settled. So say it went 210 right? Your stock went to 110 you will lose 700 bucks because you had sold the future. So you will lose 700 bucks. So your trading account will be debited with 700 bucks. So it will be so 700 bucks will be taken out of your trading account, and you will be left with 100 shares of stocks left in your account. Now this is a difficult position, right? If you had 100 shares of nothing, if you have million, 1 million shares bought your on expiry day, your future is getting settled. Your future position just vanishes, and it gets settled based on the profit and the loss, and you are just left with 1 million shares. Now, if tomorrow, if the market goes down, you will have a huge loss. Does that make sense? Yes or no. So that is the risk in in this strategy, that people do buy the stock, sell the future, huge risk on expiry day, make sense. So now, to avoid this loss, to avoid this loss, people would want to close the positions. So you should either square off the positions before expiry. You can do that. It's all right. You can definitely do that. No issues. So if, if you do that, then great, then you are fine. Or you can sell the June futures, next month's future on expiry day. You can. Sell next month's future so that even if the stock goes down, your future will also go down. So that's fine. So this is called rolling over. So does everybody understand that these are the two things that people can do, either square off your bought shares and sold futures, or you can sell the next month's future. Does that make sense? Yes or no. These are the two things, because I want to avoid carrying this position till expiry date, right? I want to really avoid this. Yeah, make sense, guys. Yes or no. Now comes the interesting part. Imagine a condition where during the month, so you know, the first option is not attractive, if during the month the difference between the stock and the future is, was always high. Imagine this. So this is, this is like eight years old data. And this is when the strategy used to work like, you know, till, I think it worked till 2020, or 2021, so, you know. Imagine so say, you know, people would have bought the stock on second Jan and sold the future. So the cost of carry is high. Now, imagine if the cost of carry was high throughout the month. Then I cannot, I cannot explore this. Option one, right. The market did not give me an opportunity to sell right. It did not give me an opportunity to to square off right. And option two, if, say, the June future, the cost of carry is not very high. Now, what I what I know, is, where did it go now? Say the open interest change in why next month's is not that high. I know for whatever reason. You know, people did not roll over. If people rolled over, then change of why in next month's future would have been very high, right? So both these conditions did not meet. People could not square off because cost of carry was high, and they did not roll over for whatever reason, because I can look at the change in oi in next month's future, if this is the case, when both these conditions are not true for for a particular stock, then I know on expiry day, there would be a huge action. What would be that action? People would be selling the stock, left, right center, trying to get out of these positions. Does this make sense? So what we had to do is we had to filter out out of 200 stocks which had futures. We had to filter out stocks that had these two conditions met. One, the cost of carry did not drop during the month, and the change of why the open why of next month, future did not increase to exceptional levels, because if the OI of the next month increased to exceptional levels, we know people have rolled over, so that's fine. But if there are, say, 10 or 20 stocks out of 200 around you know, I think we used to trade like five or 10 stocks per month. But if these two conditions are met, cost of carry did not decrease, change of oil next month did not increase. We know people on expiry day will be stuck on in these positions. So there was a very simple trade before half an hour or one hour before expiry, short the stock, right at around 3pm short the stock. So you know if you short the stock. So Tata Chem again, you know a stock where cost of carry did not decrease much during the month. Change in Hawaii is not very high for next month. Short it so 531, you short this stock around and then around 315, or 320 you know, you could buy it again. Because, you know, this was a popular strategy. So big institutions also. Knew the strategy. So they came in at around 315 320 so shot around 3pm right? So you shot at 531 you buy it around 526, or 525, so you make 1% here, and then you buy this stock and keep it till next day. And you know next day, it closed at, say, 542 so you make another two 3% there. Similarly with, with, you know, this stock. So again, this stock was, you know, the cost of carry was high throughout the month. Change in OI next month is not very high. And then, you know, at 3pm you buy this, you short the stock. So at 5815, you short the stock. It goes down 15 bucks, around 15 bucks, so you make around point 3% here, and then you buy it back again at 5800, and you make around 2% here. So, you know, every stock used to give like, two, 3% return. So it was a, it was a pretty, pretty neat trade, right?

Speaker 1  3:01:15  
So, rollover. So, okay, so this, this was the trade, right? And, you know, the reason why it stopped working was because, unfortunately, regulators said that, you know, if you have a stock position and you have a future position, they are fungible now. So futures are no longer cash settled. They are canceled against each other. So punters who do this, this trade, don't have this risk of stock and future, you know, misaligning. So that is why you know this action on expiry day ended, because they don't have any risk. So the strategy stopped working. Can you short a stock a day before, can you short a day before and square off next day? Futures, you can do that. Absolutely. Futures, you can do that. So we look at two months for change in so we look at cost of carry for that month, and why for next month, you can definitely close the position before American before expire. You can definitely do that. But that's what I'm saying, right? In this case, we know they wouldn't have done this, because if the cost of carry, if the cost of carry, did not decrease, they would, they would still wait for the next day, next day, right? This is, see, again, they're, they're losing money because they're holding the position. So they're losing money, right? So they would try their best to exit when the cost of carry decreases. So they're holding it, holding it. Now, if the cost of carry is not decreasing, it, we know they didn't get a chance to exit. They could have exited, but nobody wants to exit at a loss, right? So they, you know, they just, they used to push it, push it, push it. In the last day for, you know, around 100 millions of shares would have been in this position. So, you know, even if 15 or 20 million are left, some 80% would have been traded. But for those 2030, 20% shares that expiry day action was very prevalent. Make sense? If the cost of carry remains high, you can square over your square of would be at a loss, right? You entered at around 812, you can't, you don't want to exit at this higher price, right? You you've given, you know, you've lost your interest on so many days, right? You have, like, $1 million invested now, you know, it would have been better had you kept that money in a bank, right? You're losing money on this trade if you entered at a cost of carry, and it just didn't decrease, or it didn't increase as much as you know, more than the interest rate that the bank would have provided. So then you know, then it sort of it becomes a difficult

Unknown Speaker  3:04:12  
trade, makes sense. So this was the trade, my guys, my final i

Speaker 1  3:04:23  
This is the strategy. You know my final suggestions. I don't have any more lectures with you, but you know my final suggestion would be, you know, be a very, very strong risk manager. You know there are you have to understand the risk. And you know you have to understand the risk of your strategy, of your positions. I've met so many traders who are so casual about risk. They're all you know, their mind is on returns. What is the. It and what, and they don't care about the risk, right? Risk is, you know, there are bold traders and there are old traders. I have not met a bold and an old trader, right? That's an old adage, no bold and old traders maintain a log journal every trade, every trade that you do, maintain a log journal. Right? What trade, analyze those trades, right? How was it different from the theoretical return? You know, how is your actual live returns different from your theoretical returns? Choose your own edge. I started with technical indicators. Ended up in quant, right? Because I can't look at charts and trade I need I need algorithm, and I need to keep away from my screen. You need extremely strong emotional control. I have seen very few traders with that control with their own money. So use algorithms, right? I again, biggest mistakes. You know, traders don't they're casual about risk. They don't do enough homework. You know, market gives you what you really want to get out of it, right? I mean, if you want to be casual you don't care about the risk, then they will, unfortunately, you know, you will end up losing money because, you know, it's, it's, it's like, you know, it's like every any other profession, right? If a surgeon is casual about it, surgery, you know, things might go wrong. Same with trading, right? People tell me that. Then, you know, can you help me understand trading in a day? It's difficult, right? You cannot learn how to operate or how to become a surgeon in a day. Then, how can you learn to become a trader in a day? Right? You need that, that that that course work. You need that training to be there, right? So don't so be, you know, treated as a profession, right? So you know, this is what I had for you guys. I hope you know my sessions were interesting for you. You gained a lot from them. As I said, any questions you have after the during the ePAT course, email your relationship manager. They will forward your queries. I can take one on one sessions after the EPACT course. You can have my personal number or my email id. I genuinely you know, wish that you become great traders, don't forget me when you make your first million, right? So you know, I'm here for another 510, minutes any question that I left unanswered, believe me, guys, you know I I really enjoy this, and in case I couldn't answer your question, I apologize. But my doors are always open. You can always contact me. I am more than interested in helping you solve your queries. All right, does it affect me emotionally if I have a losing streak for three, four months? Absolutely it does. It does, and I do reevaluate if there's such a long streak, and so I compare it with my historical returns. If historically, I've if I would have seen that, you know, there was a streak of three four months, it's all right. But historically, if there was only a streak of 10 days, and now I've got a streak of one month or two months, I definitely look back what's happening. I mean, I'm not a robot, right, in fact. So that is why I like algorithms, because I don't want to look at my screen. Can I please explain the $300 profit at expiry? Okay? So all I'm saying is, if so, because at expiry, because the future price will be exactly equal to the stock price at expiry, these $300 get logged, right? You bought 100 shares at 100. You sold 103 100 at 103 so this 103 minus 100, the $3 into 100, this $300 get logged because no matter where the stock price goes, your profit on the stock and your profit on the future will add up to $300 how frequently our portfolio position adjusted? Does the strategy include long term holdings, daily trades, activity with the overall portfolio. How frequently are the portfolio? It depends upon your strategy. Some people might change their stocks every month, every two months, depending upon the horizon. My does the strategy include long term holding? So my, okay? So. My company has say, five strategies, right? Two of them are HFT, two of them are MFT, and one of them is lft, just giving you an example. So the firm's portfolio is five strategies. I'll divide my money in those five strategies accordingly, according to the money the returns that they make, and then, you know, calculate my overall forms return based on those strategies. But then on individual levels, I have a sharp ratio for each strategy, drawdown for each strategy, and so on. So it depends upon how you want to slice it at strategy level, at form level, and then within the strategy, what do you want to do? Right? So,

Speaker 1  3:10:48  
how do we implement this in real scenario right now, what we've done is this is the question right now. Whatever we've done is on historical data. How do we implement this in live data? You okay? So any idea that you have, you always test it on historical data, right? You don't implement it on live straight away. Test it out on historical data, if it works on historical data, then you implement that strategy. Live right, and you So, walk on ideas. Walk on different ideas. If an idea gives you you know, okay, this is making money. All the metrics are good. I want to implement this in life. Then you implement it. But first, whatever you do has to be tested on historical data, right? Tactics you use to determine the optimal moving averages. Can you do this with MACD, RSA? Absolutely you can. So again, there's no you have to run different combinations for optimal parameters. This is what I do for any strategy. There is no particular tactic. So if you have a problem in understanding the signal or anything are you contact your relationship manager, and they will connect you can write an email that this is something that you need help with, and they can connect you with me over email. We can schedule a call, and we can do that for that $300 both the position have to be squared off exactly at expiry, right? Yes, they both these position. So now what happens is, on expiry day, if this is the position that you have, you will automatically $300 will be credited in your account, right? Can you use the strategy in commodities by selling futures and buying the ETF related shares? So you can do that. You know, you can definitely do that, see if the stocks are not fungible or something like that. To test it out, right? I've not done that, but if it works, great,

Speaker 1  3:13:16  
okay, if you want to apply for my for a position in my firm. We have a website. You can alpha advisory.com and you can write an email to us. All right.

Speaker 1  3:13:34  
Okay, thank you for your appreciation. I The lectures are exceptional. I appreciate it. Any any any feedback positive or any criticism, positive or negative is always appreciated. All right, do I analyze Sortino or omega? No, I don't. Honestly I don't.

Unknown Speaker  3:13:57  
Sharp is good enough? Guys, did I miss any question?

Speaker 1  3:14:04  
You know, thank you so much for attending my lecture. I really hope Okay. Outliers, blacks, events, yeah, so you know this distribution of so this distribution will tell you about black swan events, right? How are the How are the returns distributed? So, always plotted here, see if there are a couple of trade that are giving you a huge losses, and analyze them. You know, analyze what happened here, what broke right. And that way you can, that is one way that you can avoid the black swan events, right, if you know, so you know, run your strategies, and you know in months where you know, where the market really crashed. 2007 2000 820, 20 covid scenario. See, why is your strategy breaking right? What if you are, if your strategy was selling the option and the VIX suddenly increased, and you lost a lot of money, then you know, you know, if the VIX is slowly increasing, you need to size down right, so a distribution of your returns on historical returns will make you understand those black swan events make sense. A question, can you make strategies on candlestick and chart patterns? If, if you can quantify your signal, then you can definitely do it. Any other thing again, you know, please don't feel any hesitation in contacting me. Any any questions. I'll be more than happy to help you out. Okay, I'm getting a lot of good feedback, so I'm happy. I really hope that you know the lecture was good again. Wish you all the best. I hope you become absolute best professional traders, do not forget me when you make your first million do drop me an email or WhatsApp. Guys, it was a pleasure taking lectures for this batch. Thank you so much. I really wish you all the best. Thank you.

Speaker 1  3:16:47  
One of the best teachers, okay, you know it's, it's, it's really a overwhelming, million dollars, million dollars. All right, thank you guys, wish you all the best. All right, thank you. Appreciate it. I will share everything that I've you know I've used. I'll share it. All right, thank you. Have a great one guys. You.

