Speaker 1  0:02  
Hello, hello everyone. Welcome to this session on back testing and developing strategies on Blue Shift. We will go through first wave, familiarize ourselves with the Blue Shift platforms and event-driven systems in general. Then we will look into the Blueshift workflows, and we'll then take a small break. That will be around the middle of the session, and then we'll come back, and we'll develop a few strategies, real-life strategies to drive home the points. Before we start, please let us know if I am not clearly audible to any of you. We'll try our best to resolve that, and in case you have any questions, please ask it right away. I'll try to check the question box from time to time to answer them as soon as I can, but definitely during the recess, or just before the recess, and towards the end we will go through all the open questions and try to close them with this. Let's start do Okay, I think you can see my screen, I So Blue Shift is a platform for developing systematic trading strategies. It comes with built-in strategy research. You can do research from scratch on Blue Shift with Jupyter Notebook. It comes with built-in financial data sets. It covers US and Indian equities market, as well as a fellow market for India. It is on the cloud and supports live both live trading and back testing, although live trading support is limited, and of course it is catered by the learning community in and around quantum state. Okay, so before we begin, a quick overview of the algo training space in terms of frequency response. This is important because before we start creating expectation on Blue Shift, we need to understand what the platform is geared for, so if you think about the latency sensitivity of strategies for algo trading, it broadly the spectrum is split in three parts, the first part, what is colored here in light power is HFT, high frequency trading, where your response time, or the latency, should be less than a microsecond, and in usually much, much less than that, the state of the art. Then comes the mid frequency, which is latency less than a millisecond, typically it will be a few hundreds of microseconds to less than a millisecond. This two domain depends pretty heavily on infrastructure, especially the HFT, where technology and infrastructure dictates a lot of what you can or cannot do, and even for the for the mid frequency range you use, if not colo, at least direct market access beyond that, that is above millisecond, typically few 10s of millisecond, and above is the domain of low frequency trading, so it can go up from, you know, from 10s of milliseconds to, you know, monthly or even quarterly rebalancing, so this huge range is for low frequency. Blue Shift is a platform which is designed to work in the low frequency of the spectrum. This is not meant for high frequency. If you, the underlying technology, if you are very particular, you can deploy it for mid frequency, but definitely not for high frequency. Okay, now why Blue Shift, or rather, why we need a elaborate algo engine, and what are the character. Sticks of such an algo engine should be whether it is blue shift or any any other thing, so the first thing is that a serious algo engine should be event driven. We will have a bit of further discussion on this, the event driven system versus vectorized system, the main takeaway is that in event-driven system you are automatically protected against look ahead bias that makes developing strategies much less, you know, worrisome, because look ahead bias is something that you know, even very, very soon coins also fall victim to sometimes. The second, and a big one, is reusable code. The strategy code that you develop for back testing is the same code that you deploy in live trading, so in a way your code is already tested, which is very much different in case of vectorized, where your testing is a set of different code than what it, what goes into live trading. So number one, event-driven system, this is a must have. Number two is CP engine, as opposed to a stateless rule engine.

Speaker 1  6:30  
A stated rule engine is simply if this then that engine, so it has no memory, it can only act of act on the current state, so if you are creating very simple strategies, creating such strategies are much easier on a, on a stateless rule engine, but anything more complicated than that, where you have to look into the past to decide some actions, look into your past state, not past data past state of the algo, you to decide some action, then it becomes very complicated. A complex event processing engine is stateful engine, and this makes you this enables you to code any strategy that you can think of, you are restricted by the the algo development interface, the particular language that you're being used, so for example on Blue Shift it is Python, so anything that you can code in Python, you can do, and of course, you are restricted by the compute and data, but other than that, the engine itself allows you to code any ideas, so CP engine is also a must. The third thing is the quality of the data. This is a no-brainer, because as we all know, garbage in is garbage out, and the a few things that we need to be very careful, especially when we are back testing, is the bias in our past data, historical data, so I am sure that all of us here are already familiar with what is called survivorship bias and look ahead bias. So, look ahead bias comes from the the architecture of the engine, whereas survivorship bias comes from the data sets. So, it is very important that the data sets that you are testing with are free of that, and also if you are anything more serious than you know, pure hobbyist, your back testing should be done with point in time data, otherwise your conclusion are on a very shaky ground. What is finding time data? We'll probably have a quick look into this, but this is very important. So 123, event-driven system, complex event processing engine and high-quality data number four, all these things, all the platforms that will have one, two, and three for the user to use them effectively, they must also come with a set of APIs which are complete, which are error-free, unambiguous, and performant, so institutional-grade APIs allows you to actually exploit one, two, and three and. And take the full advantage of the system, so that is obviously is also a must, and finally the software engineering part, this is a very important part, because when we talk about, you know, developing trading strategies and testing it, the Ah, the amount that goes into making boilerplate codes is huge compared to the code that is actually the strategy, so the split is usually in my experience around 95 to 5% so the code you write to get the data to clean the data to make sure that the trees are going, the orders are not failing, the disconnection is immediately reconnected, the performance are computed as a standard output, so all these things they will remain the same for all the all the tests that will be doing that part is actually a huge part, and the actual back testing by the strategy part is only, only around 5% So Blue Shift is a platform that allows you to, you know, concentrate on that 5% because this 95% comes bundled with the platform, so you come to the platform, and it takes care of the software engineering, it takes care of the event-driven system, the CEP engine, and high-quality data, exposing all them, all of them through the institutional grade APIs, so that you can concentrate only on that strategy now. The first point we talked about a little bit more into that why human driven system is important. So the alternative is for back testing is, of course, vectorized back testing, which works in this kind of pipeline that you see on the top of the slide, that is, you read data, you compute the signals for the whole data at one pass, and then you compute the P and L's and the performance probably in the same pass, or maybe you would want more, so you run a back testing, which is very fast. So, what is the problem with that? The even human architecture, on the other hand, is slower by design.

Speaker 1  12:38  
It works like this, that image that is on the second half of the slide, a new tick comes in, tick off any event, for example, a new data point, or maybe a news announcement, or any such events, then your strategy respond to that tick, so it usually, you know, compute some signals, and may or may not place an order, and then if it has placed an order, it will reconcile and then compute performance and update his own state, and again go back to listening for next state. So this is agent driven. So, why we want something slow instead of something fast. The reason is virtuous back testing. If you are not very careful, it is a very good recipe for look at bias. The reason is you are processing the whole data, including your past and future data, and one go in a single data frame, so you have access to the whole data, and if you are not careful the way you are generating signal with the correct shift, and, and all that, it is very easy to fall victim to look at bias, of course, you can, you know, take care of that if you are, if you are very careful, one more problem for research for vectorized back testing is that it is often very difficult to include complex state dependent rules, and it is often difficult to simulate certain stuff that is very difficult to simulate in a vectorized manner, example is that if your strategy, suppose, buys stock when the price goes crosses the RSI threshold, there is fairly a simple rule, so vectorized back testing can very, very easily capture this. Of course, you have to be careful again with look at bias, but that's not a, you know, pillar. But when the, when the signal becomes a bit more complex, so for example, when you are taking a decision based on. On your action that you took, say five minutes back, or based on your portfolio, or based on the train of your piano, so when your signal becomes more and more stateful, it becomes more and more complicated to capture that are in vector as back testing to the point where it becomes impossible, so that is the second research problem, and the second and the third research problem is that for this very reason there is a lot of boilerplate code that you have to write for vectorized back testing, which cannot be easily transferred to a new strategy, so research become less scalable. On the other hand, in event-driven system, you treat the accuracy for speed, so you lose a bit of speed, and in terms of in the bargain, you gain accuracy, that is, you can simulate any aspects to the extent possible to your heart's content, and by design it will protect you against low head bias, and also managing and simulating complex rules is no longer a problem, so that makes research much more scalable and of course you have to, you know, address the speed issue, so on new shift we use a highly optimized version of a CP engine, which is powered by Apache Arrow and other optimization, so although it will be slower, it is much faster than what it otherwise would have been, so but one of the biggest problems of vectorized is that the production becomes a, the production deployment becomes a huge problem, so by definition real world trading is event driven, so if you are testing vectorized for live deployment, you have to convert that into event-driven system, because in live trading, you will not get the whole data set past and future in a data frame, you have to listen to every tick update, so that makes other as a serious developers and research house, this makes very problematic, both in terms of the research scalability as well as production deployability, so while vectorized back testing are very good for, you know, screening initial ideas, right, when you do not want to, you know, invest time and, and privately, even money in terms of infrastructure cost to test out sketchy ideas with the elaborate event-driven strategy code, but after your initial screenings are done, when you are getting serious with a few ideas, that is the time when you want to shift to even driven system, like Blue Shift.

Speaker 1  18:29  
Now we also talked about on the why Blue Shift side about data, so in general we talked about two things: one is cyber worship bias, and the second one was point in time and corporate achievements. So, what we mean by point in time is that I'm guessing that everyone knows about what is cybership bias, so we'll not, you know, discuss that, but point in time, what we mean by that is during your back test when you look at some data point a point in time way of handling ensures that you see it as close to the possible as if you are looking at that data in that point in the past that means if there is any further corporate adjustment that has happened after that point, they are not included, so if you look at, you know, a stock series, a price series, which has, you know, from say 2000 to 2026 has gone through, you know, numerous corporate adjustment, and you are looking at during your back testing, you are looking at, say, from the point of view of say December 2020 so that means you have to incorporate the corporate adjust. Smith only till December 2020 and not beyond that. So, that means you are not using pre-adjusted data. It means that you have to adjust data on the fly, so depending on what is the data being queried from which timestamp to what timestamp that will determine which adjustments you are going to apply? This applies for not only corporate adjustments, for example, if it is in case of features and you are you are querying for continuous futures data, then the role adjustment also, you know, applied in the same manner, so this is what you mean by point in time, and as you can see, that this is a pretty heavy, you know, competition that is going behind the scene, and this makes your strategy, your simulation as accurate as possible, so for any serious back testing, this is a requirement. This is a must, and of course, the nature and the accuracy of data adjustments is also very, very important. For example, what I have done here is I've taken the prices that we get from two different sources, the one on the left you see is from Blue Shift, the one on the right is from a very popular charting platform, so you see that this is the same time range for the same stock, and it shows very different result. The reason is that this happens to be a very high dividend paying stock, and the charting platform doesn't correct for 10s, it only corrects for, you know, mergers and plates and things like that. So, as a result, if you say, for example, if you're computing a technical indicator or some other type of, you know, derived computation on the price, will end up with a very different result. So, it is very important that your data is fully adjusted and correctly adjust it and point in time adjust it, so this is what you get on Blue Ship

Speaker 2  22:30  
now.

Speaker 1  22:33  
Before we get our hands starting and and go on to the platform and see how it works, we want to spend some time understanding how event-driven system works. Now, if some of you have already worked on event-driven system, this might be, you know, all familiar to it, but for the rest we will have to go through, so that we have a good idea what you mean by event-driven system, and what strategy development looks like in an event-driven system. I'm assuming that all of us, you know, here has already gone through some basic strategy development, either in Excel or in Python, which are vectorized, so we'll focus on how it is different on agent-driven system.

Speaker 3  23:37  
Okay,

Speaker 1  23:41  
in a trading system, which is even driven, we follow the flow of events, so at the start we usually do some initialization, for example, you want to set up some database connection, or or your fixed connection or API connection to the brokers, so that you can get data and place orders, etc. Some sort of initialization, and once that is done, you start the event loop, and this event loop listens for incoming events and check that whether we should respond to this and then respond accordingly. That's pretty much it. Now, different system handles this different bits in a different manner. For example, what is included in initialization? What is what are the events you can listen to and at what latency and what sort of, you know, response you can do. These are the places where different systems will differ, but overall this will be the generic structure. Now, if you think about a trigger. A human trader, and if you follow how a human trader spends a day, we can get some inspiration. So, for example, at the start, suppose at the start of the trading day, you arrive early and you do some start of the day activities, for example, you check the risks from whatever the middle office reported from last evening, and you match your opening positions with those, and see that everything is in order, and probably also catch up with the news to decide how the market is going to behave today, possibly, and then when the market opens, you constantly get the events update that includes, you know, the terminal news or update data updates or ticks, and then you respond accordingly, and in most of the cases your responses either do nothing or place an order, so this order can be unique to either to enter a new position or to downsize your position or exit altogether. Typically, for a trader, these are the standard response. And then once the day is done, again at the end of the day, you do some set routines, so for example, you compute your PNLs, you report that to your boss and to the middle office, and again ask for the reconciliation. So this is typically what should be done in an event-driven arrow system, as well,

Speaker 4  26:48  
to do that, we need three distinct

Speaker 1  26:54  
parts of the system that must work in Edison to make it happen, so the first part is if we assume that there is already an infrastructure that can listen to event and handle them. The first thing we need is to pin that infrastructure that what sort of events we are interested in, and how we want to respond to them. So, in programming parallels, these are called callback function. So, you register some callback function to the underlying element manager and tell it that if this kind of event happens, please notify me. Please invoke me. The second pillar that we need is what is called context. The context is the state of your algo at any given point in time. Theoretically, you should be, you should be able to query context with any questions that you may have, or your algo may have about the current state or past state and get a proper answer, and the third thing we need is a set of APIs that allow us to do a set of tools or APIs that allow us to do the domain specific work, for example, in case of algo trading, that will be placing order or reconciling reconciliation of the orders, or fetching the open orders, or canceling an order, or modifying an order, and so on. So we need three things: one is call that function that you can also called event handlers that you can register with the infrastructure with the event manager, then the environment or the context that you can query to get the current and past state of the algo, and then a set of tools or domain-specific APIs that allow us to take actions like placing or canceling orders, etc. So any platform will have these three things. Any any standard institutional grade platform will have these three things. It may be called different names on different platforms, but we must have these three things working together, so before we see that, what are those things specific for Blue Shift? Just a quick picturization of. Uh, what is even driven means in terms of algo trading. So, on the left hand side, what you see is what you call an imperative program. So, typically, if you are doing a vectorized back back testing, when you change that to a production code, this is what you will end up with the what you see on the left hand side. So here you have to instruct, you have to write a script that will instruct the computer each step what exactly should be done in what order you whereas for an even driven system that allows you to code reactively, will look something like on the right hand side, these are the same piece of code, but much fewer lines. Why? Because in reactive system, you are not doing the imperative program of managing connections, errors, events, networking, and all that. That is already taken care, and that infrastructure has exposed you some APIs and call backs and context, and all you are doing is writing those callback functions, and within those callback functions, you are using the context and the domain-specific tools for actions, and as a result, you are not telling the computer what to do in exact order, you are just telling it that if this event happens, you do this, so as a result, the whole code that is running is, of course, it has to do all the network management and error handling and initialization, everything, but that is hidden, and that is what I meant. If you remember, in the beginning, by that 95% so what you are actually focusing on is just the Tibe of the iceberg, and that is the heart of your strategy, so reactive system event-driven system allows you to focus on the strategy code by letting you define your strategy in terms of event handlers or callback functions if certain event happens, how you want to respond. If you don't want to respond to a particular type of events, which the platform provides, you simply don't write a call back. Okay, so this is what it looks like, those three components. This is what it looks like for Blue Ship. So the environment is essentially the context variable. We'll see a lot of it when we actually get our hands starting, actually coding strategies.

Speaker 1  33:19  
The context variable is what you need when you want to know anything about your past and current state. What are the open orders? What is, is it a holiday today? What is the current time? What is the next session? So all those kind of questions you may have is answered by the context variables, and then, of course, there are few auxiliary functions that allows you to control and define your environments. Most of these are, you know, focused on your simulation control, so obviously they only work for back testing. In live trading, you cannot, you know, set what is the charge and the condition you are going to pay, and what is the slippage you are going to pay. So, even if you use statement like set slippage to zero, it will be on your respected, of course, in back testing. In live trading, it will be as is. So, this is a weather environment, the event handlers, we have a elaborate and a complete set of events that you can respond to, so this includes time-based events, time-based in the sense of algo lifecycle, when the algo start, when the market opens, when the market close, when the algo finishes, so the algo lifecycle best defense or time best events. So you can design your algo around that, or you can design your algo based on schedule defense, so for example. Do something every week, every month, every five minutes, every minute, or maybe 30 minutes after 22nd after, and so on, or right away, and so on. So these are sketchy elements, and then real time events. So, for example, do something when new data arrives. Do something when order gets filled. Do something when order gets timed out, or when I get an error, and so on, or when I get disconnected. If you want to, so these are real-time events handler, so you can respond, or you can structure your strategy around this few ways of responding to the events, either based on the algo lifecycle, or based on the scheduled events, or based on real time events, and finally, of course, the most important that you, no matter how you structure, and whether it is through schedule designs or real-time handlers, you have to take certain actions, and those actions can be done by other APIs at Blueshift Explorers, that includes fetching data, placing order, canceling order, resolving an asset, acquiring the option chain, for example, and so on. So these are the corresponding three pillars of Blue Shift: about the event handlers, about the environment or context, and the domain specific tools or APIs. Now we'll see the viewsheet workflows, but before we do that, we'll take a very short detour to understand that the systematic strategy design cycle, the overall workflows, so we always start whenever we are developing a systematic strategy, we always start by clearly defining what universe we are allowed to trade. This definition can be either based on your capital size, or your geography, or your mandate from your investors, or maybe is purely by your professional experience of preference, whatever it is, this is the first step. So, for example, credit funds in Hong Kong probably will focus mostly on Asian credits, whereas a retail trader in India may think that I want to trade only index options, but issue where it is, there is a first step. Then, once you have defined the universe, the next step is generate the signal for each of the instruments you have defined, whether it is, you know, only one instrument or 10 or 10,000 If they are part of your universe, you need to know the signals generated at each step for each instrument in your universe. This can be generated either, you know, independently, parallely, or they can be interdependent. Also, an example of parallel signal is that, for example, your computing RSI, so whether you have 10 or 100 stocks, you can compute them in parallel, so stock A R SI doesn't depend on the prices or anything to do its stock day, whereas if you are saying that, okay, my signal is not the RSI itself but the relative ranking of RSI in my universe, then it suddenly, you know, in the demand, and you can still compute the RSI independently, but the ranking you have to consider all of them together, whichever way it is.

Speaker 1  39:11  
So, once you have generated the signal, next thing is to create the target portfolio. What should, what should your portfolio look like in the next update? This is based on the signals, obviously, but also it is based on your internal rules and current positions. Rules may be about risk management, or or exposure rule, or position sizing rule, whichever it is, and maybe even the even the capital available, so on, so whatever the signal and the target portfolio, it may not be a, you know, a linear relationship once you have defined your target. Portfolio, the next thing, the next step is to achieve it. So that means you take your current portfolio and take a diff, the difference from your target portfolio, and try to place the orders for that difference to achieve the target portfolio. This is where, in, you will, you know, optionally use execution algorithms as well, so if you have to buy, you know, a large quantity of a single particular stocks, wherever you want to place the whole order at one go, or you want to slice and place the orders opportunistically, and so on, so this kind of decision decisions goes on into the rebalancing step, so and finally, to close the loop, you check the performance, either of your overall strategy or or different aspects of it, like the execution or reconciliation, etc. and you try to improve it, so this is more or less the strategy development cycle. Now the inputs to it are primarily price, of course, but it's not just that. So it can be position information, for example, it can be your own proprietary data, or it can be from open data sets, for example, the participant-wise positioning data that the CME exposes, and volume and open interest data from the exchange, like NSE, and so it can be fundamental information, either macroeconomic or or company fundamentals, it can be also non-market information or alternative information, like satellite images, or Twitter sentiments, or or or annual reports, or quarterly reports, sentiments, etc. Whatever your inputs are the way to use them is usually you can do that in two ways, so one is the old way, where you say that my hypothesis is if this happened then if we take this particular side of the position, it should win. So you are coming up with a hypothesis, and you are using the data to taste the hypothesis. This is the classic quant approach. How you're coming up with a hypothesis, either based on your research or based on your market experience or observation. The other way of doing similar thing is to ask the data to come up with the hypothesis. This is the typical game of machine learning based algorithm, of course. You know, you have to be very careful when you are using machine learning and finance, because of many things, but these are the broad two ways of developing strategies. And once you have developed a strategy, then you have to back test it, that back testing, this is where you are spending most of the time today, back testing, but please keep in mind that this is nearly not enough, because there are certain aspects that you cannot simulate in back testing, especially if your strategy is sensitive to liquidity or timing, or your strategy trades very early. Back testing may not be a very good, you know, representative of expected performance. So, along with back testing, you also have to do forward testing, so you can do either proper trading, you some brokers allow it, or you can, you know, do it on your own also, or you can actually deploy a smaller fraction of your capital to test out an idea, and finally, of course, whatever strategy comes up, you come up with going through all the steps. What you will be looking for is to create a portfolio of strategies instead of a single one. There are multiple ways of creating special, creating portfolios of strategies. We are not going to, you know, go into those details today, but this is a very brief overview before we get into the Blue Shift workflows

Speaker 2  44:55  
now, so.

Speaker 1  45:02  
In today's era of GNA, I one might wonder that why we need to go through the blue shaped workflows, how the code works, and how to code, why not, you know, simply go to one of the LLM models and express our strategy in English, and, and get the code now, while that is, you know, certainly a viable way of doing it, actually, we'll probably, if you know, if a time permits, we'll do a small demo on that also, but you have to remember that for trading it is very important that you understand whatever you know output LLM model is creating, in terms of code, it is very different than creating a website, because in a website you have plenty of time to test, and the testing is fairly easy, because what you see is what you get, but in trading, that is usually not the case, you are, you will not be, you know, able to simulate all type of market scenarios and paste the entire envelope, the possible set of events, you cannot test it, so you have to do a code walkthrough to make sure that whatever the LM has generated is actually makes sense, it's not just, you know, has hallucinated or invented some logic on his own, so because of this, the lack of, you know, complete testing, it's not a, it's not a question of, you know, compute, or it's not a question of data, it's a question of, it's a theoretical limit that you cannot simulate all the possible elements in trading, especially as your trading rules becomes more and more complicated, so that is the reason you cannot ever have a, you know, a complex set of test cases that you can know, simply accept the result and run it through your test suit and be done with that. Never look at the strategy code, that is not going to happen. So you have to look at the strategy code, even if you are generating a strategy or not writing it, and to look at it. We need to understand what the code does, and that is the purpose of today looking at the code. So, while we'll be, you know, going for the code, please don't focus on the syntax and etc. We will be mostly focusing on the logic, why rather than how.

Speaker 3  47:59  
Okay, but before we do that

Speaker 1  48:04  
quick overview, so on Blue Shift, as we are already know, it's an event-driven system, so this is how a strategy code works on Blue Shift. So the strategy code that you write on Blue Shift is not a complete imperative code that tells computer what to do, as we have always said it is a reactive code that declares certain functions and registered them with certain events, so essentially your code tells the underlying engine that if this happens, this event happens. Invoke this function, so at the start the engine will extract those functions and figure out which one to call for what sort of events, and then start the event loop, and whenever a particular event happens, it goes and sees that whether the user has defined the callback or an event handler for this particular event, and it does, then it will inject the environment, the context, as well as the data, data is just, you know, another environmental variable where you query to get the data, the historical data, so it injects it, and it also makes available those domain-specific tools, so that your function can take some actions. The most common events are here. The first two is initialize. Your strategy code must have a function called initialize. So this is an event handler that is invoked at the very start of the strategy code, before anything, and it is invoke. It only once when the strategy starts. If your strategy code doesn't have an initialized function, it is considered an illegal code. So typical things people do at the at the initialize is, you know, define your parameters, set up your, your simulation model types and parameters, model selections, and things like that. Then a common event handlers is before trading start. This is something similar to what we saw, the ASOD event, the start of the day went. So this is triggered every day, every trading day before the market opens. Usually it is 30 minutes before the market opens, but that is not guaranteed. But what is guaranteed that it will be triggered before the market opens, if your strategy is started before the market, of course. If your, if your market opens at 930 and you start your strategy at 10, it will still be called, but it will not be before the market, but it will still be called before any market data is processed, and it will be called only once, once a day, and then we have handle data. This is called at a regular interval based on the frequency of the engine. So, typically the engine runs with a frequency of one minute. So, handle data will be called once every minute. The other useful functions are usually either to define further event handlers, like the first column, the schedule functions, or to take domain-specific actions, the second column, the order target percent, get open orders, cancel orders, etc. or to control your environment, the simulation environment, in the case of the third call. Now let's go and see the platform and see how this translates into real coding. Before that, we we'll quickly have a look at the outstanding questions and see that if something is open. How does Bluesheet automate coding, so Blue Shift doesn't automate coding. You have to still code. You can automate coding through our LLM model. We will have a small demo of that. Hopefully, that will answer your question. Does Blue Shift has built-in integrated AI? Blue Ship doesn't have integrated AI, so that I'm not sure about what you mean by AI, if you are talking about machine learning models for generating signals, then yes, it supports TensorFlow, but probably that will change in the future, will probably move to PyTorch at some point in time at present is TensorFlow through Keras, if you're talking about AI in terms of, you know, Jane AI or LM models. No, that is not what Blue Shift supports, that you leverage to generate Blue Shift code.

Speaker 5  53:34  
Okay,

Speaker 1  53:39  
can we run blue sheet only on cloud or also on local computers. We do have a, you know, plan to release open source version. If we do, then you can definitely run it locally. Why does the reactive code not require the 95% code for implementation, whereas the vector is one required? The reason is that in case of reactive, you have standardized the way you define the strategy through a set of overhandlers, that means you can factor out that 95% and make it part of the infrastructure, exactly like what you have on Blue Ship, whereas in case of vectorized, those nanny have percent are pretty much, you know, embedded into the rest of the code. It kind of, you know, intertwined, so it's very difficult to, you know, factor it out. So that is the reason why in the reactive code you can just simply focus on the event handlers, because the rest of the thing is always set up, ah does Bluesheet provide separate price action chart with ocean CV and volume and technical indicator? Blue Sheet is not a charting platform, so Blue Ship doesn't provide any chart at all. Blue Sheet is a strategy development platform, so you. You do have price data with Vouch LC. If you really want charts, of course, you can open Jupyter Notebook on Blue Sheet and create beautiful charts using either Plotly or Matplotlib, whatever you press up. And as far as the technical indicators are concerned, Blue Ship support all the indicators from Tier Lib, but since it is a Python platform, if you want, you can create your own technical indicator, so there is absolutely no limitation on that. Does Blue Sheet provide historical price data for Indian financial market? Yes, it does, for equities and futures and options, not for commodities or or ethanol forex. Could you give a demo for Bruce of Cat? We'll soon go into that. How does this work for futures contract? Because you know you have to stitch the futures contract together in order to back test. Yes, so that was the point that we discussed during point in time. So, if you are querying for, say, a rolling futures contract, so for example, the first monthly futures, so the way the platform will work is that it will convert your query to actual dated futures, right, and we'll go and pick up those particular expiries, put them all together, apply the apply the corrections, the rolling correction, when you roll from one expiry to the next, so that correction it will apply, and in case of any major splits, and major splits, and you know, corporate actions, it will also apply them, and it will do everything on the fly. So, if you are preparing for data, you know, 1000 times during your back test, so this whole exercise will be done 1000 times, each with different timing window to make sure that the data that gets delivered to the back test is point in time and accurate. Can you generate Blueshift code using Copilot and Chat GPT? Yes, you can. We will have a quick demo. Is Py charm ID supported for Blue Ship development? So you can use, you know, any Python environment for that. We also have a developer skit, which supports, you know, pilots based typing information, so typing hints, so you can use any standard IDs, but VS Code is usually preferred anyway. So, what we'll do is that we'll, we'll stop here, we'll quickly go, and we'll see the strategy code generation, but mind you, this is not our focus today. We know that it can be generated. The main focus is to understand what is generated. So, here we have a very simple strategy. Well, not so simple, actually. So, what we want to do is that we want to create an intraday strategy for options, which starts at 9:30am and establish the opening range for the day, and after that, whenever you know Nifty closes outside the range, we do our range reversal trend through ATM, ATM option, either put or call, and for each entry, is that a 40% take profit or stop loss, and also, since we are buying options, you know, we don't want to pay theta, so if our view is not, you know, realized within 30 minutes, we exit. So, we enter a trade based on a signal stop loss, fine.

Speaker 1  59:11  
We exit net profit, finally exit. No stop loss, no tech profit. Go in 30 minutes, we exit anywhere, and once an exit happens, we look for re-entry after a maximum number of times after a 15 minutes gap, and any sort of entries and re-entries will stop after, you know, 15 minutes to three, and at 2o'clock we square off everything, so if I, you know, I have added some, you know, small lines using this, but the most important part is this guide, so if you go to GitHub and. And this search for Blue Sheet Developer Kit, you will have a few things that you know allows you to do stuff. One of those things is LLM guides, so we have two sorts of LLM guides: one is for creating regular strategies and one is for creating pipeline strategies. We'll see what a pipeline strategy is later. So, this LM strategy is what we are going to upload. So, what you are going to do is that first we are going to upload the guide, so it is a small markdown file that tells what power the strategy is to be done in what format, and then we are going to, you know, copy paste this. I assigned a role also these days. LM is smart enough, you know, to handle even without this, and I just paste it right, so and hit enter. So, what you'll do is that it will spend some time, and eventually it will spit out a strategy. You can do the reverse. Also, by the way, you can upload the same guide and upload a strategy code, and ask it to explain, so it will also do a very nice job. And once you know it has gone through the documentation and generated the strategy code, in most of the cases it will be one shot. It will simply one for the strategy. In some cases, it may, may not, it may, you know, flounder on some points, but you get a lot of done. So, probably it will require a couple of debug runs, and you'll get a brand new strategy code. So, probably we'll wait a couple of minutes here for it to generate the code, so it has already started.

Speaker 6  1:02:18  
In the meantime, we can okay okay, so it

Speaker 1  1:02:51  
similar algo platform that I say direct provides? Yes, so you see the version of Blue Shield on ICSA Direct, it is called Spring on that platform, but the underlying engine is the same power that Blue Ship, although what you see on the platform is much geared towards quant research, and what you see on on the ICSA direct platform is much geared towards live trading, so I see that possibly it has generated the whole strategies. Yes, so we can just, you know, copy paste it's an option strategy, so I'll just save it and start running it, hopefully it will run at one go without any error. Yes, it does. So that's it, but that is not the point. So you can easily create, you know, glossary strategies. You can understand a strategy also, and you can also, you know, understand the strategy output using Chat GPT or any other LM. If you are in most of the cases, it can work even without any guide, but giving the guide will make it more accurate. So, perhaps if I haven't shared the guide, it would have given me some, you know, some invented function calls. The guide corrects it, so you get to one shot, but the main issue is that we need to understand what it has produced, because there is no way, as I mentioned, we can create a complete test suit like we can for a website, so that we don't have to have a look at the code, so rest of the day to day will spend understanding the code, so our purpose is not to know how to write, but rather how to understand the code. Writing can be done by LLM. Okay. So let's get started. So the first thing we need to understand is how the event handlings and the lifecycle events happens within Blue Ship. So let me run this first, and so we want to run it only for no very few days. The idea is not to, you know, create a performance, but rather to see what is being done when, so we'll run it from first of March till sixth of March. Okay, this particular strategy doesn't even place any orders, so you will always, you know, stay with whatever capital you started with. What is interesting here is the what we are looking for here is the output. Okay, so what the strategy is doing is is importing something from the Blue Shift API module and is defining a few functions, as we know, the first function, the initialize function, is a must. It has to be there so that the strategy is recognized, otherwise it will be an invalid strategy. What we are doing inside the initialize function is that we are calling this get dead time function. The get take time function will give me, give us the current timestamp. Now, current timestamp means when you are running an live trading, current timestamp means the real time, the real current time, whereas in case of back testing, it means from the point of view of back test at the timestamp that it was at when you call that function, so this will tell us when this function was invoked. So we are printing the timestamp of the function call, and then we are scheduling a few functions for detailed documentation, it is a very good idea to, you know, go through the API documentation. It is searchable in HTML, so it is a, it is a very good way of finding stuff that you are looking for. So, this is highly recommended. So, schedule function is a function that you call at a repeated date and time rule, so you specify what dates it should be repeated and within each of those dates at what time, so here we have saved that repeated month start, so at the start of the month, the first business day of the month, it will be repeated. That's why we chose from first of March, and it will be repeated on that day on market open, and with an offset of 30 minutes, that means 30 minutes after market open, so that means this rebalance function will be called every first day of the month, 30 minutes after the market open.

Speaker 1  1:08:29  
Similarly, we have another function called rebalance to here, the day cruises every day, so this will be called every day, not just the start of it, start of the month, similarly, you can have, you know, every day, every week in the month, end of week, start of week, and so on. You can also have own expiry only, or three days before expiry, so there are different ways you can define at what date you want to run and what time you want to run, and then we also have this schedule soon. The schedule soon means it will be run as soon as possible, but not in a blocking manner. What do I mean by that is that the event handler, the event manager, is calling this function, so as soon as it sees that schedule, soon is there, so it knows that I need to run this rebalance, but it will complete this function, transfer the control back to the event manager, then event manager will be at his own choosing. It will decide whether to run this schedule soon, call back or any callback that might need even more urgent attention, so. Then we have this before trading start, as we, as I mentioned, so it will be called everyday, but slightly before the market open, and this rebalance, which is being called here on Monster Rebalance Two, which is being called here every day on every nth minute, where n equal to 120 that means every two hours rebalance tree. This is being called here only once, but you will also call rebalance four, so that means you know you can even call one function from another schedule function you can call even rebalance three here, so that means you can even call itself recursively, so you have a, you know, a huge flexibility in which way you want to express your strategy logic, right? So now if we look at the output, what we see is that first we get inside initialize, so there is the function we expect to be run first, very first, before anything, and this is what has happened, and the timestamp you see is that is at the midnight, so and then you have before trading start, which is called at 845 so the market opens at a 915 so 30 minutes before 915 is roughly 845 and then you see that rebalance three, so it has been called as soon as possible, so at the market open itself, so although initialize schedule this rebalance tree, it was not called till the market open, so initialize was triggered at midnight, but the schedule soon waited till market open, so this is also some very important point to remember, and then you see that once the rebalance three is called, it automatically calls the rebalance four, and this rebalance two is being called, you know, every two hours, so once at 915 then 1115 then 1315 then 1515, and so on. Now, if you go on to the next day, right next day, we see that the initialize is not being called anymore, because it is called only once per strategy, but before trading start is still being called again at 845 because it is called everyday, and rebalance two is also being called every two hours, but there is no rebalance three, because rebalance three was scheduled only once via schedule, so that is done. You will also see that I chosen first of March to sixth of March, but the first time stamping God is actually 27th of February. The reason is that if the system sees that the start day is a holiday, it automatically bump the date to the previous trading day, so as a result, effectively started with the 27th of February as a starting day. Cool, so this is very clear, so we understand exactly how the schedule function works, how the schedule soon and schedule later works, and what are the sort of flexibilities we have, including recursion, including scheduling later by time offset or repetitive call via schedule function. Now the next thing we want to look at is placing orders, because this is very important, obviously, for algo trading. Now in Blue Ship, there are many ways of placing orders, so one way of placing orders is that you specify the asset and the quantity. These are the regular orders. These are supported by any platform, of course.

Speaker 1  1:14:51  
The other way of doing that is using what we call targeting order. So, here you don't say that, please order. Five units of Apple. Instead, you say that target five units of Apple target to have a position for five units of Apple. So that means if you have zero position in Apple at that point in time, it will place five units Apple order if you have three Apple shares already in your position, you to place only two, and if you have already 10 shares of Apple, you are long, then you would have actually sold five shares of Apple to achieve a target of five, so two ways of placing orders. One is either you say in absolute terms or you say in terms of targeting order. We recommend using the targeting order. Why? Because if you are using the absolute term every time you call it, there is a new order, so your strategy has to be super, you know, cautious that it doesn't enter into a machine learning. What I mean by machine learning is that sometimes if your algo conditions are not properly specified, it may happen you link something and Algo has interpreted strictly what you have written. For example, suppose you meant that when RSI crosses 70, place five units of order for Apple. Instead of that, you have written when RSI is greater than 70, so as a result it will keep on hitting those five minutes of Apple order as long as RSI is greater than 70. So this is what I mean by machine learning of orders. So to avoid that, if you, if you write instead of target five units, then it is problem solved. The first time it will test five, next time it will see that it has evaluated by five units, or at least you will see that it has got open orders for five units still to converge. Then it will not place any orders, so we will not get into a machine gun, you know, or so that's why we usually recommend, unless it is required, you should not place absolute order but targeting order. So here is an example. Before that, let me run it to see the output. We'll do the same thing here, so actually we'll do only for one day, so 0503 2026 to 0503 2026 26 Right, what we are doing here again is we are importing some APIs. We have already seen this schedule function, date rules, time rules, and get date time. They've already seen a haven't seen the symbol function, and we haven't seen the ordering option. So, order function has typical sizing. For example, you can say order or order value or order percent. If you say order, that means you have to specify how many units. If you say order value, you have to specify what is the dollar amount you want, and if you say order percent, then you have to specify what is the fraction of your total algo capital you want to place the order for, and for each we have a targeting version. So order target means you specify your target in terms of unit order. Target value means you specify your target in terms of dollar value. Order target percent means you specify your target in terms of fraction of the total capital. What this strategy is doing is first it is in the content in the initialized function. It is defining two assets using this symbol function. Now, symbol function is a very important thing to understand. On Blue Shift, everything that requires and traded instrument, we work by an asset object, we work with an asset object. We do not work with the string representation, the ticker name of the asset to get that asset object from its ticker name. We use this function symbol, so symbol function takes the ticker. Ham meta, and create an object that captures many information about this particular Facebook stock. For example, what is this full name? Whether you can short it, whether you can borrow it. What is the range during which we have data for this particular stock, what is the tick size for this stock, and so on many other things.

Speaker 1  1:20:26  
So this asset object is created by the symbol function, where it takes in the ticker and creates the asset object, and this asset object is what you pass for any data fetch or any order placement. So here we are doing two or replacement, one using order and one using order target. We are using order for asset one, order target for asset two. So, for me, to we are using order, for Apple we are using order target. You see the output, so you will see that at 930 we placed meta order. At 930 the same time stamp, we also place a apple order, but subsequently no further apple order, only meta. Why? Because apple order was target target achieved, so no further orders. So this is how you place orders, and also once you place an order, you get an order id. So this order id can be a string order ID for a specific single order. It can also be list, for example, if you are placing the order with retries, maybe it has, you know, taken three tries to get all the execution, so it will have a list of three IDs, but if it doesn't return anything, if it returns none, that means for some reason your order placement has failed. Okay, so we know how the algo scheduling works. We know how order placement works. Now, before we can create real-life strategies, the last thing we need to know is how to fetch data, because that will determine how we compute our signals. So, let's go and see that now. On Blue Shift, you can query the data, the past historical data, using this data argument that are passed on any function that are called during trading session. Initialize, for example, doesn't have this argument because it's not called during trading session, before trading start will have this argument, and the later will have this argument, any scheduling function will have this argument, and this is what you use to query for data, and you have two distinct functions, one is data dot current, this data dot history. So this data actually is a slight misnomer. It is an object, it is not the data, it is not a pandas data frame, it is an object that you can invoke different methods on to get the data, which may or may not be Pam, this data plan. So internally it is called data portal, but on strategy code it is typically referred to as data, so please keep this in mind. This is not the data; this is actually a data portal, and this is this data portal you can use to fetch historical data. So, current when you say it gives you the latest observed value, and history means it gives you a series of bars, a series of candles. Blue Shift always tries to give the data in the simplest possible manner, so that means if you query for a single asset and a single column for the last observed value. The simplest possible return is a float float number, a simple number. But before we describe this, let's run it anyway. So we have Apple and Meta, so we'll choose this again. We'll choose this. Am day this will also, it doesn't place any orders, so there will be no panel, it only prints the features and prints the data. Okay, so this will return offload next if you query for one asset, but two columns open and close, so it will return a panda series with open and close being the index. Similarly, if you query for two assets, symbol one and symbol two, Apple and Meta, Apple and Microsoft, but for one asset, one column, so again it will return a panda series with the asset one and asset two as the index, and if you query for two assets, two columns, two or more assets, two or more columns, then it will return a pandas data frame with the columns as this columns and the assets as the index, so let's see, so the first output is here, it's a float one column one asset, second output one asset, two columns, so a series with open and close as the index. Next was one column, two assets, so again a series with assets as an index. Now, when you see like this, this means that this is an actual asset object.

Speaker 1  1:27:03  
It is a physical, it is a representation of string representation of an asset object. This is not a string value as such. So assets are the index and the values are the column and when you have two assets and two columns you get a data frame with column names as a fields and assets as a indices now if you are querying for history, you go one up in the dimension, so whatever float becomes series, whatever was series become data frame, and whatever was data frame, that becomes a multi-index data frame, so same way we can go through the series version, so one asset, one column, three candles, so that index is the timestamp of the candles, and you get a series, so instead of float you get a series, similarly one acid two columns you get a better frame timestamps as the index for three candles and the column names as of fields if you have two assets and one column, then the assets becomes a column, then, and if you have multiple assets and multiple columns, then you become a, then you get a multi-index data frame, so columns becomes the field names, the first level zero index are the assets, and level one index, the second level is the time stamp, and of course, if you're familiar with Pindus data frame, it's very easy to subset it for a particular column or a particular assets, and so on using the excess function, this function, but anyway, if you don't know, you can ask, you know, Chat GPT or something similar to get the result, so this is what you have learned so far. We know what is your shift and why. What are the key characteristics we are looking for? We also saw in detail the characteristics and the architecture of event-driven systems, and we also had a very. More detail about one development cycle, and then we got, we dived into the workflows of Blue Shift. We saw that how to generate code using the LLM context guide using ChatGPT, or any other LM, which can also be used to interpret an existing code already, and then we looked at some snippets to see how to use Blue Shift to list them out. First, we saw how the scheduling and the life cycle works. Second, we saw how all the placement works. Third, we just now concluded how to fetch data. Now, with this, we are equipped to get into our next step, which is creating actual strategies. But before that, we'll take a very short break. Right now, it is 1731 Indian Standard Time, so we'll be back at 1740 roughly nine minutes to resume with strategy development, so Hello, everyone. I hope all of us are back. Thank. So before

Speaker 7  1:40:05  
the others catch up, we'll quickly have a look at the

Speaker 1  1:40:10  
questions. If any, could you please repeat schedule soon? So schedule soon is a function that whatever callback you pass on to it, it will schedule that callback to be called as soon as possible, but in the next event cycle, that means it will not block the event manager, it will not continue calling that function right away, but it will allow other events to have a chance, and if not, then that function will be called. What is the purpose of this rebalance function? So I believe we are, you are talking about the initial, the first example that we saw. So, if you see that all those rebalance function was just printing the time it was called, so they are just dummy functions, just to see that how and what time those functions are getting invoked to have an idea how the scheduling method is working. What happens if we write infinite loop accidentally? So, there are two ways of writing infinite loop. So, one way is you do a while loop, if you try to do that, you get a illegal code error, so you cannot write a while in finite loop, while true infinite loop on blue shift. The second way of doing this is getting into a recursion that means you call a function and schedule that function from within itself. Now this is allowed because there is valid reason that you might have where a strategy may need this, but if you expect there is a repression depth defined, which is actually a pretty short one, so if you try to do that, where you end up in a situation where this function is calling itself too frequently, too many times, then also the strategy will crash. So, this is not the recursion depth of regular Python. This is the recursion depth of the event manager, the Blue Shift Algo Engine Event Manager, and it is much shorter one, not either 5000 or 10,000 some recursion depth for regular python, so this is what it will happen, so this gives you the power to use the recursion to, you know, express complex trading logic, but also you are responsible for it, so you should be careful that you are not getting into an infinite loop, so the system will not try to stress it. It will crash your strategy if you now next is can we retrieve error? Can we retrieve error when it has failed? Yes, so you will have, you can definitely, you know, have error handling that will automatically trigger based on what was, what was it, will capture when it was, when the error happened, and what was the error message. You can, of course, you know, do it explicitly using try accept if you suspect that some particular parts of the strategy is vulnerable to error, and this reminds us that the error handling is a, is a very important part of strategy development, especially around sensitive areas, for example, when you're trying to place an order, or you're trying to square off, or you are trying to fetch data, or you are assuming that data is valid, so all these places are, you know, hidden avenues for strategy failure. Can I check, how does blue. Shift gets real time data. Is it possible to link IBKR market data into Blue Shift? So, at present now, because Blue Shift is not open source, so you have to rely on only what we make available. So, right now we have Alpaca, which is available, and also, if you're in the Indian market, you can check out the Spring platform from ICSA Direct, but if it, if you make it open source, which you do have a plan for, then you can, you know, integrate any, any source, including IV player, if you want. How to fetch historical data on Blue Shift? I think that is what we, you know, explained just before going, going for the break. We'll have a couple of, you know, examples of fetching historical data. Anyway, but now let's move on to, you know, creating basic strategies. So we created, you know, one strategy just now, that is from Ellen, but let's look at a handmade strategy and see that how strategy can look like on Blue Shift, so the one that you will start with is a very simple strategy. It is also known as 920 option selling strategy.

Speaker 1  1:46:23  
This is an intraday strategy that sales straddle at in the morning with leg wise stop loss and take profit, and then squares it off if the stop loss or take profit doesn't hit squares off any remaining leg towards the end of the trading. Before we look into the code, let's run it in the background, so Okay, now let's have a look at the code. So, first thing we are doing is we are, as usual, importing some methods. So, the few methods we have already seen, like symbol order get date time. We have also seen schedule function, date rules, and time rules. We haven't seen the square of method, the set stop loss, and sector profit method. In the initialize, we are using schedule function to run proof functions at a specific time of day every day, so one is enter, one is close out, one we are calling at 920 the enter function, then other we are calling at 1500 the close out function, so this is when we enter the straddle, nor do when we square of any remaining position. We run it every day, and at specific time 920 and 15. The enter function resolves the current weekly ATM call and put, so you see that we are using some particular way of specifying the call and put weekly options, so that you can get more details about on the API documentation. If you look for symbology, so in the symbology you will see that how to specify for rolling features or a rolling options, monthly options, weekly options strikes in terms of delta strike in terms of price, and so on. So here we are specifying the near near week ATM call input, and we are resolving that into the specific strikes that are prevalent when we are trying to enter and then we are just placing order for those the negative quantity implies cell and the quantity is lots multiplied by asset dot mult lots is the number of lots we want to trade. We have set it to one, and asset dot mult is the lot size. So, typically for equities it will be one, for futures and options it will be, it will be a different number, greater than one, depending on the contract specification. Example for Nifty, right now this will be 65 and also we have done a very basic error handling. So we are putting this order placement around it, try accept block, and in case we have any exception, we invoke this order, generic order handle function. So this function, right now, does nothing, it just, you know, square off and try to enter later, but you can have a, you know, as detailed response as you want on a error, so we place the orders, and then once the orders is successful, we set a stop loss and set a take profit in percent method with point four for each point four means 40% so each leg independent stop loss and take profit 40% and then the closeout function, which is invoked at 1500 is called in just square saw, so squares of without any argument means squares of all positions, so these are pretty simple functions, right? We are, you know, scheduling two functions to run every day at given specific time. One function enters the trades and save the stop loss and take profit if successful. The function squares off

Speaker 2  1:51:20  
now, so this

Speaker 1  1:51:24  
is a relatively simple strategy, where we are not even, you know, looking at any signals, you are fetching data, you are not computing anything at all, we are just simply, you know, placing some orders. Now, let's look at a case where we do fetch some data, and we compute signals. Now, if you remember the the quant life cycle, right? So there we have defined that the first step is to, we have shown that the first step is to define the universe. Now, the way you write a blueshift strategy depends on how large this universe is. So, if the universe is small, we can write it by hand. In fact, just the strategy we looked at, where we have defined our universe as the Euclidean column, put, and just two assets, so we, you know, define those universe in writing those symbol functions by hand, so if the universe size is small, one asset, two assets, maybe even 50 assets, or whatever you are comfortable with. So that is something that we can write down the universe by hand, and we can write the rest of the strategy, but there may be cases where the universe may be too large, or maybe it is rule driven, so that we cannot write them by hand, so that requires another set of APIs on top of the other regular APIs of Blue Shift called pipeline APIs that is dedicated to work with large universe size and rule-based universe selection, but for now we'll first start with small universe and a very basic technical indicator-based strategy. The strategy looks something like this. Actually, not quite like this. It's reverse, so wherever is written by you should read as cell, and wherever is written cell, you should read at read as by.

Speaker 8  1:54:02  
Okay. so

Speaker 1  1:54:05  
we compute the Bollinger band. I'm sure all of you are already familiar with Bollinger bands, is just about creating two one sigma bands around the mid level of prices. So we create the Bollinger band, and the underlying premise of the structure is if the price is very close to the upper or lower Bollinger band, we are entering a setup for breakout, so that means if it's very close to the upper, it is going to break out on the upside, so we buy and if it is very close to the lower biology band, it is about to break out on the downside, so itself in between, if it is neither close to the upper or lower boundary, if it is somewhere in the middle, then we fall back on. As very simple moving average crossover strategy, so the red one is a fast moving average, the blue one is a slow moving average. So, whenever the first one crosses the blue from below, we buy; otherwise, we on the on the reverse, we sell good, so now see how we implement this now before we look at the implementation. Let's also, you know, get a reminder of the this cycle, the reason is that the implementation follows this pattern. If we look at, let me run this first, I Okay, so first we are importing some functions from Blue Shift KPI, but also from Blue Shift Finance and Blue Ship Library. So, Blue Ship KPI imports - we are all familiar with symbol to convert the ticker into an asset object, audit target percent, then the schedule function, date rules, and time rules. We see a couple of things new here: one is commission slippage, and also this set commission and set slippage function. The reason we are using this set commission and set slippage is that we want to see the strategy performance in isolation of any slippage cost or trading cost, so we use this API function to define the cost and the slippage models, and we use this modules to access the built-in predefined models, we'll see how below, and the built-in library exposes some technical indicators that we'll be using two bands and EMA. This is what we are importing them for now. Remember, these are very thin wrapper around TLA library, so if you don't need to, you can directly also, you know, import TLA, and then use that. It's not required that you have to, you know, use the built-in library. It's just, you know, convenience wrapper. Now again, we have this initialize function, we have defined our universe only two, which is Nifty Roman One and Bank Nifty Roman One, which is a symbology for first month futures for Nifty and Bank Nifty. Then we are defining a parameters as parameters as a dictionary. Now you see that in the previous strategies, also we have been adding this attributes to context. So, for example, here we have added an attribute called securities to this context object. We have added another attribute of params, and here signals and target positions, and so on. So, why we are doing this. The reason is, we are leveraging the fact that context is a Python object, and we can add any attribute to a Python object, and since the contact of the object is passed to all the other functions, that means if I add something here and if I try to access it somewhere here, I get the same context and hence the same parameters. So, by adding this as a context attribute, I can define a variable at one place and access in another function. This could have been impossible without using global variables, and we all know that global variables are not a very good pattern, it can create issues, and this fact that the context is passed on to all other event callbacks gives us a very convenient way of defining, creating user-defined. The variables as context attributes and passing them on to other functions, so that is why all the variables we are defining, we are defining as attributes of context. So we have defined our universe as a list, we have defined our parameters as a Python dictionary. Why we are defining the parameters? Because it's very convenient for two purposes. One is that if you define everything at one place later on, if you want to see the impact of changing parameters on the performance.

Speaker 1  2:00:43  
You don't have to make changes in multiple places, you can come to a single place and make the changes and see what happens. That is one reason. The second reason is that Blue Shift allows you to parameterize a strategy. You can pass parameters from outside to Blue Shift, and you can call a function called Sat Algo parameters, so and using this function, you can define that this params object is my context attribute that holds all the parameters, and any function, any parameters that are passed from outside is stored there, so this allows you to, you know, to define your own parameters, so you can change them at runtime without, you know, changing the algo code. So that is the reason why we define the parameters in one place as a dictionary. Next, what we define is we define a placeholder for signals and a placeholder for target positions, so if you remember this, so we have defined a placeholder for the universe, which is securities, then we have defined a placeholder for the signal generation that will do with which is signals and a placeholder for the target portfolio which is target positions this is a list list of assets to allow the test allowed trade and both of these are dictionaries, so the instrument and the corresponding number, the first one is for the signal and second one is for target position, then we are using this set commission and set slippage to set the commission slippage to zero, so we are using a per share model with per share cost as zero, and we are using a fixed slippage model with fixed slippage cost cost to zero. So, effectively, this is zero commission. We can also directly use, you know, commission.no commission or slippage.no slippage. Okay, so we have, we are done with the setup. So we have defined the universe, we have defined the parameters, we have defined the placeholders for weights and for signals and the position weights, and then finally we are setting up the algorithms, so we are running the strategy at a trade frequency, so mind you, the trade frequency is also picked up from the parameters, and we are running the stock trading 30 minutes before the market, so to flag to track the state, whether we are in a trading mode or not. We have a flag which is context or trade, so at on the onset, we are setting at true on each time on before trading start, we say it as true, and stop trading will set it to false, and in between, when the run strategy is running, it checks whether this guy is false or not. If it falls, it returns, so that means once it, before trading start kicks in at 845 this flag is set true. So right from the beginning at 915 this round strategy starts, but once at, you know, at 1500 the stop trading kicks in, then any sub. Second call to run strategy will simply return from here. Will not trade now. What run strategy is doing is this: three different things: one is generating the signal, generating the target position, and rebalancing. This is one to one with generating the single target portfolio in rebalance. The easiest function to look at is the rebalance function. It is a simple for loop across all the securities and placing orders for the target positions that you have calculated, if you remember, the target position is this placeholder, a number for each of the asset in their units, but The general target position is a function that actually create this computes this target position, so how it does, we are using a very simple position sizing function, which is equal sizing, so we take the number of securities that is the length of our universe, so one divided by that number is equal weight for each multiplied by any possible leverage that becomes our weight, and now we are looking through the universe and see that if our signals are greater than by threshold, we put a positive weight, less than the cell threshold, we put a negative weight, otherwise no weight, that is no position, so this

Speaker 9  2:07:03  
signal is the place order we defined here,

Speaker 1  2:07:11  
and this is getting computed by this generate signal function. Generate signal function is querying for data. We have seen how to query data for data dot history. Here we have two assets and only one column, so we will get a pandas data frame where the columns will be the assets and the timestamps will be the index, the The size of the data frame and the frequency of the candle. This is also put up from the parameters. This is one minute candles, and the size is, I believe, 375 candles, which is a full day candle for the Indian market, starting at 915 till 1530 total 375 training minutes, and the way we are computing the signal is very simple. So this is the case where the signals are computed independently. So these are technical indicators, we can compute them independently, so in a for loop we are extracting the price data for that particular security. Mind you, the price rate is a data frame with columns as a security, so we can simply, you know, subset like this, and then we are passing that into the signal function we are passing the price for that security and the parameters, so to recap the generate function, generate signal function use a signal function to to fill the signal placeholder. This is picked up by the generate target position, which, which uses a very simplified target position sizing function to fill in the target position placeholder, which again is then used by the rebalance function, which simply places this orders, so we were talking about some volunteer band, and you know, moving average crossover strategies, but we haven't seen any volunteer band and crossover still now. Why? Because the heart of the logic is actually in the single function, so what we are doing here is that we are calling the Bollinger band function, the built-in function, to get the upper, mid, and lower values. Of course, as I mentioned, you can use directly the TLF Bollinger band. Function, we don't have to use the library function, which is a thin wrapper of TLU anyway, and then we are computing the distance from the upper, so we are normalizing the distance from the upper like this, so upper minus the last price divided by the whole band bandwidth, so multiplied by 100 so that means if it is very close to 100, if it is, say 99 this value that means it is very, very close to lower band, whereas if it is very close to zero, then that means it is the last price is very close to upper, so the logic is if distance to upper is greater than 95 we are very close to lower band, so sell on the breakout, and if it is very close to the upper, less than five, we are very close to the upper band, so buy on the breakout, and if it is in between, so distance to upper is being 40 to 60, then we fall back on the indicator one and indicator two crossover indicator one is the short period image and indicator two is the long period image. We are using exponential moving average here instead of simple moving average. So to recap, the signal function compose the signal we This function is invoked by a generate signal function,

Speaker 10  2:11:48  
which fills up this signal placeholder.

Speaker 1  2:11:54  
This signal placeholder is used by target position placeholder in the generate target position, and then this target position is used for placing the orders in rebalance, so in run strategy we call them in this specific order. First, we call the generate signal, then then we call generate target position, and then we call the rebalance, so so if we want to, you know, replace this Bollinger band logic with something else, so for example, Fibonacci breakout, or or RSI, or anything for that matter, all you have to do is to change the signal function, so Ah, mind you, so on Blue Shift you actually have a, you know, capital simulation, also. So, for example, if I run this strategy with, say, 50,000 1000, it will not do a single trade. You will see a straight line. The reason is that it is trying to, you know, short or go long on futures of Nifty and Bank Nifty, and it requires much in much above 50,000 so if your capital is only 50,000 all the orders will be, you know, beyond the capabilities, then the scope of the capital, so none of the orders will be placed, so your capital will be unchanged, so your back test is also sensitive to capital, so it tries to capture every aspect of of simulation. Okay, now this is as we discussed, a a case where we have used technical indicators, but more importantly, where we have used universe which is small, which we could have written by hands. The question is, what we do when we cannot do that, and that is where we have pipeline APIs. Before we go into the pipeline APIs, we'll also have a very quick look at any outstanding questions, so How could you show demo of my bots in Blue Shift? I could, but it will not be very effective, because today is Sunday, so most of the things will not work there. We cannot launch a. Our trading bot today, it will only work on on trading days, but we'll see if we have some time, we'll try to explore that. How to fetch historical IV using Blue Shift, so if you are querying data for options, then instead of close price, you can also specify implied vol, so all in small lower cases implied underscore wall, similarly you can also specify delta gamma bega and theta, anything beyond that you have to any any other bricks, so any second order higher bricks you have to complete that, that is also possible because you can always create a close price along with the ATM F and the time to expiry. Does Blue Shift support live trading? So, as I mentioned, it does support live trading for US market years via Alpaca, and if you are interested in the Indian market, please check out ICSA Direct, the Spring Argo trading platform, which is powered by Blue Shift. Could you use crypto for demo of my boss in Blue Shift? At present we are not supporting any crypto trading venue on Blue Shift. We used to, we are not at present doing anything, so I cannot really do that anyway. So, moving on to the, the large asset use cases, so the first thing probably you want to do is explore the API, so please go through this section. In most of the cases, actually, most of you will not require pipeline APIs, for you know, testing out your ideas, unless you are going for, you know, typical point style factor models, or things like that, but if you do, then it is very important that you go through API documentation. Also, as I mentioned, that we have this toolkit, which has LLM guides, so it has a specific special guide for pipeline APIs. Also, sorry, I Now, and also in a documentation, there are some Jupyter notebook examples. You can, for example, go through the pipeline API exploration notebook and see that how things work out on Plightline. You can try this on the Jupyter notebook, and see how it works before we actually try a strategy, but here today we'll start with a sample strategy anyway, and we'll try to understand what is happening through that sample strategy, so By the way, again, as I mentioned, the idea is still not to understand how to do stuff rather than what and why.

Speaker 1  2:19:17  
How to do the stuff is right now is of course we can get help from LLM model, but you still need to understand why and what anyway. Now the way pipeline API works is, is it uses something called a computation graph. Computation graph, you, for example, may be always familiar with similar computation graph. One example is TensorFlow, for example, TensorFlow at a heart at O is a comp. Patient graph, there are many more. A competition graph is essentially DHE, directed a sighted graph, where each node defines an operation and data flow

Speaker 2  2:20:26  
from from lift to

Speaker 1  2:20:30  
the root, so this gives you the way the pipeline API works, so you would define the competition and how they are interrelated, and then you feed it with data, and the pipeline itself lazily computes the output only when required, so so the use of pipeline is to define a set of factors and filters that are evaluated across the whole universe or based on any screening that you are doing, filter is an operation that produces a boolean when applied to the universe, the each asset, it will have a true or false factor. On the other hand, is an operation that produce a number, so you apply to each asset, it will produce a number for each asset in the inverse, so the typical way you use pipeline is that first you define the graph, you define the factors and the filters you are going to use, you can either use built-in factors and future filters, or you can define your custom ones and once the factors and filters are decided, you use the filters to screen the universe and use the factor to compute the signal, so So this is how you define the pipeline, or define that combination graph. Now, mind you, when you are defining, no operations are being done, it only defines what operations and how they are interrelated. No actual competition happens at that point in time. So, once you define the pipeline, you register the pipeline with the strategy, and later on, during your strategy logic, when required, you invoke the pipeline to get the result, and based on the result, you do whatever the logic requests. So, this is pretty much how you use the pipeline API. So, the pipeline API is mostly about defining the pipeline, defining custom and custom filter and factors, if required, attaching the pipeline to the strategy and then calling the pipeline when you need the rule, so that's pretty much it. Let's see an example. So, what you are trying to do is that it's a, it's a very simple time series momentum strategy where we are going to scan the returns of all the assets in the universe over the last year or so and then pick up top five or top 10 and create a normally portfolio. We are importing certain functions. Before that, let me run this. So we are importing certain functions, you have seen most of the functions apart from this to address pipeline and pipeline output. Address pipeline is after you have defined a pipeline, you have created the graph. Address pipeline is how you registered that total algo. So you associate a name with that pipeline graph object, and algo remembers the name, and later on you can use this pipeline output by the name and get the result, so this adage pipeline and pipeline output is the simplest part of the pipeline API. The major part is how to construct and how to define custom type, custom factors of filters. So, how to define is something like this. So, first we instead instantiate a blank pipeline. We import all this pipeline-related stuff from Blue Shift dot pipeline. So, first we create a blank graph, then we use a built-in filter, which is the average volume filter, and when we use a built-in factor, which is technical factor, we and then add this factor to the graph under the name Roc. Create a factor, create a filter from this factor where ROC is greater than zero, that means it will only pick where the return over the period is greater than zero, positive return, and then set a screen by combining the volume filter and ROC filter. filter the technical factor is a generic built-in factor that allows you to, you know, define any single vector technical indicator. Average volume filter is something that allows you to define a look back at a threshold and define a filter that will pass only the assets whose average traded dollar value was higher than that threshold over that look back, so that means it's a kind of a liquidity filter, so what you are doing here is that you are defining a liquidity and the return filter, so you are saying that get me all the stocks which have been highly liquid and the return has been positive, and for all such stocks compute the return over the last 12 months. Why 12 months?

Speaker 1  2:28:16  
Because if you see that in the parameters we have defined the look back as 12, and when we actually specified the look back number, we multiplied by with 21 so 12 just look back parameters in month. There are 21 roughly 21 trading days per month, so 12 into 21 becomes something like 252 so roughly one year, so we are computing average dollar volume over one year beyond a particular above a particular threshold, and also return over last one. So this pipeline we are just defining the operation, we are not doing any calculation, but once this is this runs the calculation, it will give us a set of assets which are liquid and have positive return over the last 12 months, and will also give us the computed return for those assets that satisfy this condition. The return from this pipeline will be then a pandas data frame. The index of that data frame will be the assets that has passed all your screening and and the columns of the database will be all the factors you have done. Pipe dot add, so here it will have a data frame with a single column named ROC with the return value. For each of the assets that has passed this positive return and high volume filter, you can also define custom filter and custom factors. We haven't, you know, shown here, but if you go to the documentation, as well as in the Jupyter notebook, in both places there are examples of that. So, if you are interested, please try them out now. The way this is integrated in the rest of the strategy is very simple, so you can initialize you call attach pipeline with this function call, right, and associate that with the name. In this case, we have called it my screener, and later on in your main strategy function, which is running in this case every month 30 minutes before the market close on that function, you call the pipeline output by the name, and from the result you select the top ones. So here we have defined in the parameter the sizes we are selecting top five, so you select the top five, so these are the your next rebalance candidate, and in the round strategy, right, once you get the rebalance candidates, you check your current holdings, so whatever is in your current holding and not in the revaluance candidate, those are your exit assets. So you say order target percent zero, that means exit those assets, and the rest you re-evaluate their equal weights and order, so there is a very simple basic time series momentum, long only time says moment, and this is how you use pipeline strategies. Now, the factors and filters are just for helps, right? The real power is when you can define your own custom filters and practice, but those will not get into today, that is for another day, but the main thing to require here is that if you have a case where you have to deal with systematic universe choice in your selection, and those universe selection depends on daily data. Mind you, the pipeline will not run on any data frequency which is higher than daily, so it is not run on many data or anything. It is run only on daily data. So, in such case, you use the pipeline APIs. The main aspects of the pipeline API is creating the pipeline object, the graph object, and then register that within your strategy in the initialize function and then when required you call the pipeline output to face the output of the computation from the graph object and to create the graph object you define some filters and factors you set a screen using the filters and the return value of the pandas data frame, which has assets that has passed your screen and that has columns for all the factors that you have added,

Speaker 2  2:34:08  
good. Now,

Speaker 1  2:34:15  
before we conclude, let's quickly go through the, so we have talked a lot about back testing today, so let's quickly go through the some aspects of back testing, which are not, you know, highlighted enough. The idea of back testing is what you see on the left hand side, so you start with an idea, you create a hypothesis to test the idea. Then you taste the hypothesis, it is either you know it works or it doesn't, either it's rejected or accepted, if it does work, it's great, you try to further fine tune, further try to establish the risk parameters, etc. and eventually, hopefully, go for live credit. If it doesn't work, then you throw it out straight to the trash can and start over. But this is theoretical. What actually, you know, we end up doing is not only you, everyone of us is what is on the right hand side, so we get into a loop, so we start with an idea, which we are convinced that it should work, we try out, it doesn't, then we try to tweak it, and if we torture the data enough somewhere in time, it will work, but that is essentially, you know, data fitting, pre-hackling, it is not really, you know, linked towards generating robust PNL in future trades, rather generating great practice results in the past data, so to give you an idea that you know what is the kind of impact it might have, here's a quick graph. This is from from various papers on sharp pressure haircut, initially by, I think, Harvey Campbell from JP Morgan Quans. So the idea is that if you are, you know, competing the sharp ratio of a strategy by testing only once, the way it should be, the left hand way, visibly, if you are getting into a loop and testing in multiple times, like the right hand way, how it changes the sharp ratio and the actual sharp ratio, so here the actual sharp ratio is on the y axis, the major sharp ratio from your back test is on the x axis, and it is a 45 degree curve for base case, which is a single test and measured value that whenever you are getting into the loop that gets lower and lower, and we see that you know, for the case where you have done 1000 loop, 1000 iteration of the same idea, the measurement of one that you get is actually adjusted sharp ratio of minus one, so as you can see that it's a very severe, you know, a very severe impact that gets, you know, totally overlooked if you are focused on your back test results. So alternative, so that's why you know on Blue Shift, we do not, and we do not plan to provide any parameter optimization routine, because parameter optimization also, you know, kind of falls into this category, looking over the same idea to hit, you know, hit some sort of peak, so so the alternative is, of course, you can use adaptive strategies that changes, you know, the signal method based on the market, you can use instead of, you know, the timing or signal timing, you can use stable alpha or stable factor research, you can also, you know, mitigate the risk and the alpha decay via ensemble strategies, or you can, in the last, you know, resort, you can also do some sort of cross validation, you have to be very careful when you are doing cross validation of time series data, but anyway, those are not the topics for today, but this is something that you should, you know, always remember when you are spending enough time doing back testing. Now that we have some time, we'll go through the list of the questions again, but we'll also try to, you know, see what is there in my bots. So, my bots is something that, you know, allows you to run strategy for. A, for the brokers that are, you know, listed here right now, it is only Alpha. I cannot show you much, because today's today is not a trading day. So, the way it works is that, you know, you go to some, you know, research lab, or or the template strategies. Suppose you think that this strategy looks great. I can go live with this, so you click go live.

Speaker 1  2:40:26  
You select a broker and you say that, okay, this is the amount I want to deploy, and the bot name will be my awesome bot. And then new trade, and then you submit, so this will not run today. It will exit very soon, but had it been, you know, trading day, we would have continued to place the trade signal and anyway, so we also have a Jupyter notebook section on Blue Shift that is before Baptist. If you want to explore and come up with the hypothesis, right, we will not go into that today. Also, we'll see if we have any further questions for today. How far you can go past, ah to test with historical data, so you can explore our data set. So I think for us we have data since 2007 if I'm not mistaken. So many data since 2007 for Indian equities. I think we have data set in two different, we have two different data sets. So one data set spans from 2017 till 2023 the other one spans from 2023 till date. So that is the date frames that you have in both cases, many data for Indian case, you also have along with equities, you have F innovators as well, futures and options for index as well as single stocks. Can we get access to the impact folder? So I think I'm sure you will get all the materials that we discussed with today, this codes and, and the GitHub repo I mentioned everything, so we'll definitely, you know, get a, get a copy of that, so don't worry on that. The whole idea is to, you know, get a sense of why and what we are doing. The how to do that part is already, you know, right now is taken care of by LLM. You can simply upload the LM guides and generate the code. There is another question. I believe I've already replied. This is still here. What happens if there is any infinite loop accidentally? So, as I mentioned, you cannot do a while loop, but if you are getting into, you know, recursive call of schedule function, you can get into an infinite loop, but you will, your strategy will crash after a certain recursion depth, and that recursion depth is determined by the event managers, not this, not the Python recursion depth, and this is much smaller, so it is up to you to be irresponsible that you are not using the recursion in a scenario where it can get entered infinitely. Cool, I think all the questions are answered. In case you guys have any further questions, please feel free to, you know, reach out to your support manager or me. You will get all these codes, as I mentioned. Please try out the platform, and don't forget to share your feedback if you have any, and happy doing your research on vision. That's it for today's lecture. Have a nice rest of the weekend.

Unknown Speaker  2:44:52  
Bye.

